12086629.txt

Both natural and designed micro RNAs can inhibit the expression of cognate mRNAs when expressed in human cells. Animal cells have recently been shown to express a range of approximately 22 nucleotide noncoding RNAs termed micro RNAs (miRNAs). Here, we show that the human mir-30 miRNA can be excised from irrelevant, endogenously transcribed mRNAs encompassing the predicted 71 nucleotide mir-30 precursor. Expression of the mir-30 miRNA specifically blocked the translation in human cells of an mRNA containing artificial mir-30 target sites. Similarly, designed miRNAs were also excised from transcripts encompassing artificial miRNA precursors and could inhibit the expression of mRNAs containing a complementary target site. These data indicate that novel miRNAs can be readily produced in vivo and can be designed to specifically inactivate the expression of selected target genes in human cells.

16141076.txt

Modulation of hepatitis C virus RNA abundance by a liver-specific MicroRNA. MicroRNAs are small RNA molecules that regulate messenger RNA (mRNA) expression. MicroRNA 122 (miR-122) is specifically expressed and highly abundant in the human liver. We show that the sequestration of miR-122 in liver cells results in marked loss of autonomously replicating hepatitis C viral RNAs. A genetic interaction between miR-122 and the 5' noncoding region of the viral genome was revealed by mutational analyses of the predicted microRNA binding site and ectopic expression of miR-122 molecules containing compensatory mutations. Studies with replication-defective RNAs suggested that miR-122 did not detectably affect mRNA translation or RNA stability. Therefore, miR-122 is likely to facilitate replication of the viral RNA, suggesting that miR-122 may present a target for antiviral intervention.

16831872.txt

MicroRNA-9 controls the expression of Granuphilin/Slp4 and the secretory response of insulin-producing cells. Insulin release from pancreatic beta-cells plays an essential role in blood glucose homeostasis. Several proteins controlling insulin exocytosis have been identified, but the factors determining the expression of the components of the secretory machinery of beta-cells remain largely unknown. MicroRNAs are newly discovered small non-coding RNAs acting as repressors of gene expression. We found that overexpression of mir-9 in insulin-secreting cells causes a reduction in exocytosis elicited by glucose or potassium. We show that mir-9 acts by diminishing the expression of the transcription factor Onecut-2 and, in turn, by increasing the level of Granuphilin/Slp4, a Rab GTPase effector associated with beta-cell secretory granules that exerts a negative control on insulin release. Indeed, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation, and transfection experiments demonstrated that Onecut-2 is able to bind to the granuphilin promoter and to repress its transcriptional activity. Moreover, we show that silencing of Onecut-2 by RNA interference increases Granuphilin expression and mimics the effect of mir-9 on stimulus-induced exocytosis. Our data provide evidence that in insulin-producing cells adequate levels of mir-9 are mandatory for maintaining appropriate Granuphilin levels and optimal secretory capacity.

17438130.txt

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha regulates a microRNA-mediated signaling cascade responsible for hepatocellular proliferation. Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) leads to hepatocellular proliferation and liver carcinomas. The early events mediating these effects are unknown. A novel mechanism by which PPARalpha regulates gene expression and hepatocellular proliferation was uncovered. MicroRNA (miRNA) expression profiling demonstrated that activated PPARalpha was a major regulator of hepatic miRNA expression. Of particular interest, let-7C, an miRNA important in cell growth, was inhibited following 4-h treatment and 2-week and 11-month sustained treatment with the potent PPARalpha agonist Wy-14,643 in wild-type mice. let-7C was shown to target c-myc via direct interaction with the 3' untranslated region of c-myc. The PPARalpha-mediated induction of c-myc via let-7C subsequently increased expression of the oncogenic mir-17-92 cluster; these events did not occur in Pparalpha-null mice. Overexpression of let-7C decreased c-myc and mir-17 and suppressed the growth of Hepa-1 cells. Furthermore, using the human PPARalpha-expressing mouse model, which is responsive to Wy-14,643 effects on beta-oxidation and serum triglycerides but resistant to hepatocellular proliferation and tumorigenesis, we demonstrated a critical role for let-7C in liver oncogenesis. Wy-14,643 treatment did not inhibit let-7C or induce c-myc and mir-17 expression. These observations reveal a let-7C signaling cascade critical for PPARalpha agonist-induced liver proliferation and tumorigenesis.

17463289.txt

Regulation of the germinal center response by microRNA-155. MicroRNAs are small RNA species involved in biological control at multiple levels. Using genetic deletion and transgenic approaches, we show that the evolutionarily conserved microRNA-155 (miR-155) has an important role in the mammalian immune system, specifically in regulating T helper cell differentiation and the germinal center reaction to produce an optimal T cell-dependent antibody response. miR-155 exerts this control, at least in part, by regulating cytokine production. These results also suggest that individual microRNAs can exert critical control over mammalian differentiation processes in vivo.

17539773.txt

MicroRNAs and haematology: small molecules, big function. MicroRNAs are a recently discovered class of small ( approximately 22nt) endogenously expressed translational-repressor RNAs that play key roles in many cellular pathways and whose aberrant expression appears to be a common feature of malignancy. MicroRNAs are expressed in specific haematological cell types and play important regulatory roles in early haematopoietic differentiation, erythropoiesis, granulocytosis, megakaryocytosis and lymphoid development. Additionally, there is an emerging body of research to suggest that microRNAs play an important role in the pathology of haematological malignancies. MicroRNAs have been found to act as both tumour suppressor molecules [e.g. MIRN15A (miR-15a), MIRN16-1 (miR-16-1)] in leukaemias and have oncogenic properties [e.g. MIRN155 (miR-155) and MIRN17-92 (miR-17-miR-92) cluster] in lymphomas. This review discusses the rapidly accumulating research that points to the major role microRNAs play in both haematopoiesis and haematological malignancy.

17613543.txt

miRNAs in cancer: approaches, aetiology, diagnostics and therapy. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are causing tremendous excitement in cancer research. MiRNAs are a large class of short non-coding RNAs that are found in many plants, animals and DNA viruses and often act to inhibit gene expression post-transcriptionally. Approximately 500 miRNA genes have been identified in the human genome. Their function is largely unknown, but data from worms, flies, fish and mice suggest that they have important roles in animal growth, development, homeostasis and disease. MiRNA expression profiles demonstrate that many miRNAs are deregulated in human cancers. MiRNAs have been shown to regulate oncogenes, tumour suppressors and a number of cancer-related genes controlling cell cycle, apoptosis, cell migration and angiogenesis. MiRNAs encoded by the mir-17-92 cluster have oncogenic potential and others may act as tumour suppressors. Some miRNAs and their target sites were found to be mutated in cancer. MiRNAs may have great diagnostic potential for human cancer and even miRNA-based cancer therapies may be on the horizon.

18158304.txt

Antagonism of microRNA-122 in mice by systemically administered LNA-antimiR leads to up-regulation of a large set of predicted target mRNAs in the liver. MicroRNA-122 (miR-122) is an abundant liver-specific miRNA, implicated in fatty acid and cholesterol metabolism as well as hepatitis C viral replication. Here, we report that a systemically administered 16-nt, unconjugated LNA (locked nucleic acid)-antimiR oligonucleotide complementary to the 5' end of miR-122 leads to specific, dose-dependent silencing of miR-122 and shows no hepatotoxicity in mice. Antagonism of miR-122 is due to formation of stable heteroduplexes between the LNA-antimiR and miR-122 as detected by northern analysis. Fluorescence in situ hybridization demonstrated uptake of the LNA-antimiR in mouse liver cells, which was accompanied by markedly reduced hybridization signals for mature miR-122 in treated mice. Functional antagonism of miR-122 was inferred from a low cholesterol phenotype and de-repression within 24 h of 199 liver mRNAs showing significant enrichment for miR-122 seed matches in their 3' UTRs. Expression profiling extended to 3 weeks after the last LNA-antimiR dose revealed that most of the changes in liver gene expression were normalized to saline control levels coinciding with normalized miR-122 and plasma cholesterol levels. Combined, these data suggest that miRNA antagonists comprised of LNA are valuable tools for identifying miRNA targets in vivo and for studying the biological role of miRNAs and miRNA-associated gene-regulatory networks in a physiological context.

18185580.txt

Endogenous human microRNAs that suppress breast cancer metastasis. A search for general regulators of cancer metastasis has yielded a set of microRNAs for which expression is specifically lost as human breast cancer cells develop metastatic potential. Here we show that restoring the expression of these microRNAs in malignant cells suppresses lung and bone metastasis by human cancer cells in vivo. Of these microRNAs, miR-126 restoration reduces overall tumour growth and proliferation, whereas miR-335 inhibits metastatic cell invasion. miR-335 regulates a set of genes whose collective expression in a large cohort of human tumours is associated with risk of distal metastasis. miR-335 suppresses metastasis and migration through targeting of the progenitor cell transcription factor SOX4 and extracellular matrix component tenascin C. Expression of miR-126 and miR-335 is lost in the majority of primary breast tumours from patients who relapse, and the loss of expression of either microRNA is associated with poor distal metastasis-free survival. miR-335 and miR-126 are thus identified as metastasis suppressor microRNAs in human breast cancer.

18281269.txt

Origin, evolution, and biological role of miRNA cluster in DLK-DIO3 genomic region in placental mammals. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a rapidly growing family of small regulatory RNAs modulating gene expression in plants and animals. In animals, most of the miRNAs discovered in early studies were found to be evolutionarily conserved across the whole kingdom. More recent studies, however, have identified many miRNAs that are specific to a particular group of organisms or even a single species. These present a question about evolution of the individual miRNAs and their role in establishing and maintaining lineage-specific functions and characteristics. In this study, we describe a detailed analysis of the miRNA cluster (hereafter mir-379/mir-656 cluster) located within the imprinted DLK-DIO3 region on human chromosome 14. We show that orthologous miRNA clusters are present in all sequenced genomes of the placental (eutherian) mammals but not in the marsupial (metatherian), monotreme (prototherian), or any other vertebrate genomes. We provide evidence that the locus encompassing this cluster emerged in an early eutherian ancestor prior to the radiation of modern placental mammals by tandem duplication of the ancient precursor sequence. The original amplified cluster may have contained in excess of 250 miRNA precursor sequences, most of which now appear to be inactive. Examination of the eutherian genomes showed that the cluster has been maintained in evolution for approximately 100 Myr. Analysis of genes that contain predicted evolutionarily conserved targets for miRNAs from this cluster revealed significant overrepresentation of the Gene Ontology terms associated with biological processes such as neurogenesis, embryonic development, transcriptional regulation, and RNA metabolism. Consistent with these findings, a survey of the miRNA expression data within the cluster demonstrates a strong bias toward brain and placenta samples from adult organisms and some embryonic tissues. Our results suggest that emergence of the mir-379/mir-656 miRNA cluster was one of the factors that facilitated evolution of the placental mammals. Overrepresentation of genes involved in regulation of neurogenesis among predicted miRNAs targets indicates an important role of the mir-379/mir-656 cluster in this biological process in the placental mammals.

18559475.txt

Drosophila let-7 microRNA is required for remodeling of the neuromusculature during metamorphosis. The Drosophila let-7-Complex (let-7-C) is a polycistronic locus encoding three ancient microRNAs: let-7, miR-100, and fly lin-4 (miR-125). We find that the let-7-C locus is principally expressed in the pupal and adult neuromusculature. let-7-C knockout flies appear normal externally but display defects in adult behaviors (e.g., flight, motility, and fertility) as well as clear juvenile features in their neuromusculature. We find that the function of let-7-C to ensure the appropriate remodeling of the abdominal neuromusculature during the larval-to-adult transition is carried out predominantly by let-7 alone. This heterochronic role of let-7 is likely just one of the ways in which let-7-C promotes adult behavior.

18647411.txt

Differentiation of two types of mobilized peripheral blood stem cells by microRNA and cDNA expression analysis. BACKGROUND: Mobilized-peripheral blood hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) have been used for transplantation, immunotherapy, and cardiovascular regenerative medicine. Agents used for HSC mobilization include G-CSF and the CXCR4 inhibitor AMD3100 (plerixafor). The HSCs cells mobilized by each agent may contain different subtypes and have different functions. To characterize mobilized HSCs used for clinical applications, microRNA (miRNA) profiling and gene expression profiling were used to compare AMD3100-mobilized CD133+ cells from 4 subjects, AMD3100 plus G-CSF-mobilized CD133+ cells from 4 subjects and G-CSF-mobilized CD34+ cells from 5 subjects. The HSCs were compared to peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs) from 7 subjects. RESULTS: Hierarchical clustering of miRNAs separated HSCs from PBLs. miRNAs up-regulated in all HSCs included hematopoiesis-associated miRNA; miR-126, miR-10a, miR-221 and miR-17-92 cluster. miRNAs up-regulated in PBLs included miR-142-3p, -218, -21, and -379. Hierarchical clustering analysis of miRNA expression separated the AMD3100-mobilized CD133+ cells from G-CSF-mobilized CD34+ cells. Gene expression analysis of the HSCs naturally segregated samples according to mobilization and isolation protocol and cell differentiation status. CONCLUSION: HSCs and PBLs have unique miRNA and gene expression profiles. miRNA and gene expression microarrays maybe useful for assessing differences in HSCs.

18755897.txt

miR-34a repression of SIRT1 regulates apoptosis. MicroRNA 34a (miR-34a) is a tumor suppressor gene, but how it regulates cell proliferation is not completely understood. We now show that the microRNA miR-34a regulates silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) expression. MiR-34a inhibits SIRT1 expression through a miR-34a-binding site within the 3' UTR of SIRT1. MiR-34 inhibition of SIRT1 leads to an increase in acetylated p53 and expression of p21 and PUMA, transcriptional targets of p53 that regulate the cell cycle and apoptosis, respectively. Furthermore, miR-34 suppression of SIRT1 ultimately leads to apoptosis in WT human colon cancer cells but not in human colon cancer cells lacking p53. Finally, miR-34a itself is a transcriptional target of p53, suggesting a positive feedback loop between p53 and miR-34a. Thus, miR-34a functions as a tumor suppressor, in part, through a SIRT1-p53 pathway.

19059913.txt

Impaired micro-RNA pathways diminish osteoclast differentiation and function. Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) are important in regulating cell fate determination because many of their target mRNA transcripts are engaged in cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. DGCR8, Dicer, and Ago2 are essential factors for miRNA homeostasis. Here we show that these three factors have critical roles in osteoclast differentiation and function. Gene silencing of DGCR8, Dicer, or Ago2 by small interfering RNA revealed global inhibition of osteoclast transcription factor expression and function, decreased osteoclastogenesis, and decreased bone resorption in vitro. In vivo, CD11b(+)-cre/Dicer-null mice had mild osteopetrosis caused by decreased osteoclast number and bone resorption. These results suggest that miRNAs play important roles in differentiation and function of osteoclasts in vitro and in vivo. We found a novel mechanism mediating these results in which PU.1, miRNA-223, NFI-A, and the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (M-CSFR) are closely linked through a positive feedback loop. PU.1 stimulates miRNA-223 expression, and this up-regulation is implicated in stimulating differentiation and function of osteoclasts through negative regulation of NFI-A levels. Down-regulation of NFI-A levels is important for expression of the M-CSFR, which is critical for osteoclast differentiation and function. NFI-A overexpression decreased osteoclast formation and function with down-regulation of M-CSFR levels. Forced expression of the M-CSFR in M-CSF-dependent bone marrow macrophages from Dicer-deficient mice rescued osteoclast differentiation with up-regulation of PU.1 levels. Our studies provide new molecular mechanisms controlling osteoclast differentiation and function by the miRNA system and specifically by miRNA-223, which regulates NFI-A and the M-CSFR levels.

19073597.txt

In vitro evidence suggests that miR-133a-mediated regulation of uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) is an indispensable step in myogenic differentiation. UCP2 and UCP3, two novel uncoupling proteins, are important regulators of energy expenditure and thermogenesis in various organisms. The striking disparity between UCP2 mRNA and protein levels in muscle tissues prompted initial speculation that microRNAs are implicated in the regulatory pathway of UCP2. We found, for the first time, that the repression of UCP2 expression in cardiac and skeletal muscle resulted from its targeting by a muscle-specific microRNA, miR-133a. Moreover, our findings illustrate a novel function of UCP2 as a brake for muscle development. We also show that MyoD can remove the braking role of UCP2 via direct up-regulation of miR-133a during myogenic differentiation. Taken together, our current work delineates a novel regulatory network employing MyoD, microRNA, and uncoupling proteins to fine-tune the balance between muscle differentiation and proliferation during myogenesis.

19158092.txt

Involvement of MicroRNAs in hydrogen peroxide-mediated gene regulation and cellular injury response in vascular smooth muscle cells. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) comprise a novel class of endogenous, small, noncoding RNAs that negatively regulate approximately 30% of genes in a cell via degradation or translational inhibition of their target mRNAs. However, the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on miRNA expression and the roles of miRNAs in ROS-mediated gene regulation and biological functions of vascular cells are unclear. Using microarray analysis, we demonstrated that miRNAs are aberrantly expressed in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) after treatment with hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). H(2)O(2)-mediated up-regulation of microRNA-21 (miR-21) was further confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. To determine the potential roles of miRNAs in H(2)O(2)-mediated gene regulation and cellular effects, miR-21 expression was down-regulated by miR-21 inhibitor and up-regulated by pre-miR-21. H(2)O(2)-induced VSMC apoptosis and death were increased by miR-21 inhibitor and decreased by pre-miR-21. Programmed cell death 4(PDCD4) was a direct target of miR-21 that was involved in miR-21-mediated effects on VSMCs. Pre-miR-21-mediated protective effect on VSMC apoptosis and death was blocked via adenovirus-mediated overexpression of PDCD4 without the miR-21 binding site. Moreover, activator protein 1 was a downstream signaling molecule of PDCD4 in miR-21-modulated VSMCs. The results suggest that miRNAs in VSMCs are sensitive to H(2)O(2) stimulation. miRN-21 participates in H(2)O(2)-mediated gene regulation and cellular injury response through PDCD4 and the activator protein 1 pathway. miRNAs might play a role in vascular diseases related to ROS.

19235467.txt

[MicroRNA and central nervous system]. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 21-24 nucleotide (nt) duplex RNAs that participate in the translational regulation of messenger RNAs (mRNA). These miRNAs are created from precursor transcripts by subsequent processing steps that are mediated by Drosha and Dicer-members of the RNAseIII family. One of the two strands is incorporated into the active sites of a protein that belongs to the argonaute family of proteins, where it serves as a guide for complementary sequences in the 3'-UTR site of the target mRNAs. miRNAs are expressed at high levels within the as well as mature developing brain. These miRNAs orchestrate the maintenance of adult neural cell traits, promote cellular homeostasis and dampen endogenous and exogenous stress responses, and modulate multiple parameters that are associated with synaptic plasticity. In this regard, the expression of a brain-specific miRNA (miR-124a) in nonneuronal cells enables the conversion of the overall gene-expression pattern to a neuronal one. Another brain-specific miRNA, namely, miR-134, modulates the development of dendritic spines-neuronal protrusions that connect with other neurons-and therefore probably controls neuronal transmission and plasticity. Recent evidence suggests that miRNAs may be a contributing factor cases of neurodegeneration, such as those in Alzheimer diseases and polyglutamine diseases. Research on miRNAs in the context of neurodegeneration has been rapidly advancing, and the goal of this review is to provide perspective for new data that may aid specialists in this field.

19378336.txt

Identification of novel microRNA targets based on microRNA signatures in bladder cancer. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that negatively regulate protein-coding genes. To identify miRNAs that have a tumor suppressive function in bladder cancer (BC), 156 miRNAs were screened in 14 BCs, 5 normal bladder epithelium (NBE) samples and 3 BC cell lines. We identified a subset of 7 miRNAs (miR-145, miR-30a-3p, miR-133a, miR-133b, miR-195, miR-125b and miR-199a*) that were significantly downregulated in BCs. To confirm these results, 104 BCs and 31 NBEs were subjected to real-time RT-PCR-based experiments, and the expression levels of each miRNA were significantly downregulated in BCs (p < 0.0001 in all). Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis revealed that the expression levels of these miRNAs had good sensitivity (>70%) and specificity (>75%) to distinguish BC from NBE. Our target search algorithm and gene-expression profiling in BCs (Kawakami et al., Oncol Rep 2006;16:521-31) revealed that Keratin7 (KRT7) mRNA was a common target of the downregulated miRNAs, and the mRNA expression levels of KRT7 were significantly higher in BCs than in NBEs (p = 0.0004). Spearman rank correlation analysis revealed significant inverse correlations between KRT7 mRNA expression and each downregulated miRNA (p < 0.0001 in all). Gain-of-function analysis revealed that KRT7 mRNA was significantly reduced by transfection of 3 miRNAs (miR-30-3p, miR-133a and miR-199a*) in the BC cell line (KK47). In addition, significant decreases in cell growth were observed after transfection of 3 miRNAs and si-KRT7 in KK47, suggesting that miR-30-3p, miR-133a and miR-199a* may have a tumor suppressive function through the mechanism underlying transcriptional repression of KRT7.

19524507.txt

A pleiotropically acting microRNA, miR-31, inhibits breast cancer metastasis. MicroRNAs are well suited to regulate tumor metastasis because of their capacity to coordinately repress numerous target genes, thereby potentially enabling their intervention at multiple steps of the invasion-metastasis cascade. We identify a microRNA exemplifying these attributes, miR-31, whose expression correlates inversely with metastasis in human breast cancer patients. Overexpression of miR-31 in otherwise-aggressive breast tumor cells suppresses metastasis. We deploy a stable microRNA sponge strategy to inhibit miR-31 in vivo; this allows otherwise-nonaggressive breast cancer cells to metastasize. These phenotypes do not involve confounding influences on primary tumor development and are specifically attributable to miR-31-mediated inhibition of several steps of metastasis, including local invasion, extravasation or initial survival at a distant site, and metastatic colonization. Such pleiotropy is achieved via coordinate repression of a cohort of metastasis-promoting genes, including RhoA. Indeed, RhoA re-expression partially reverses miR-31-imposed metastasis suppression. These findings indicate that miR-31 uses multiple mechanisms to oppose metastasis.

19544458.txt

MicroRNA 92b controls the G1/S checkpoint gene p57 in human embryonic stem cells. Human embryonic stem (ES) cells exhibit a shorter G(1) cell cycle phase than most somatic cells. Here, we examine the role of an abundant, human ES cell-enriched microRNA, miR-92b, in cell cycle distribution. Inhibition of miR-92b in human ES cells results in a greater number of cells in the G(1) phase and a lower number in the S phase. Conversely, overexpression of miR-92b in differentiated cells results in a decreased number of cells in G1 phase and an increased number in S-phase. p57, a gene whose product inhibits G(1) to S-phase progression, is one of the predicted targets of miR-92b. Inhibition of miR-92b in human ES cells increases p57 protein levels, and miR-92b overexpression in differentiated cells decreases p57 protein levels. Furthermore, miR-92b inhibits a luciferase reporter construct that includes part of the 3' untranslated region of the p57 gene containing the predicted target of the miR-92b seed sequence. Thus, we show that the miRNA miR-92b directly downregulates protein levels of the G(1)/S checkpoint gene p57. STEM CELLS 2009;27:1524-1528.

19547998.txt

Differential expression of microRNA 181b and microRNA 21 in hyperplastic polyps and sessile serrated adenomas of the colon. This study was designed to analyse the potential diagnostic value of miR-181b and miR-21 for discriminating hyperplastic polyps (HP) from sessile serrated adenomas (SSA) without cytologic dysplasia. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction expression levels of miR-181b and miR-21 in 18 HPs, 19 SSAs without cytologic dysplasia and 20 normal colonic mucosal specimens were examined. In addition, 20 colorectal cancers specimen were analysed for miR-181b expression. Data were normalised to RNU48 as an internal control. A differential expression of miR-181b and miR-21 was found in HPs, SSAs, and normal colonic mucosa with highest expression levels in SSAs. Levels of miR-181b but not miR-21 differed in HPs and normal mucosa. SSAs exhibited both significantly higher miR-181b levels (up to 2.01-fold; P < 0.001) and miR-21 levels (up to 1.82-fold; P = 0.011) than HPs. In contrast to HPs, SSAs are characterised by high levels of miR-181b and miR-21 expression. However, due to the overlap of values, miR-181b and miR-21 evaluation did not allow discrimination of the two lesions in every case.

19560422.txt

Cellular microRNA and P bodies modulate host-HIV-1 interactions. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), approximately 22 nt noncoding RNAs, assemble into RNA-induced silencing complexes (RISCs) and localize to cytoplasmic substructures called P bodies. Dictated by base-pair complementarity between miRNA and a target mRNA, miRNAs specifically repress posttranscriptional expression of several mRNAs. Here we report that HIV-1 mRNA interacts with RISC proteins and that disrupting P body structures enhances viral production and infectivity. In HIV-1-infected human T lymphocytes, we identified a highly abundant miRNA, miR-29a, which specifically targets the HIV-1 3'UTR region. Inhibiting miR-29a enhanced HIV-1 viral production and infectivity, whereas expressing a miR-29 mimic suppressed viral replication. We also found that specific miR-29a-HIV-1 mRNA interactions enhance viral mRNA association with RISC and P body proteins. Thus we provide an example of a single host miRNA regulating HIV-1 production and infectivity. These studies highlight the significance of miRNAs and P bodies in modulating host cell interactions with HIV-1 and possibly other viruses.

19608752.txt

Molecular profiling of CD3-CD4+ T cells from patients with the lymphocytic variant of hypereosinophilic syndrome reveals targeting of growth control pathways. The clonal CD3(-)CD4(+) T-cell population characterizing lymphocytic variant hypereosinophilic syndrome (L-HES) persists for years, with a subgroup of patients ultimately progressing to T lymphoma. The molecular changes associated with the premalignant clone and the emergence of malignant subclones are unknown, precluding the development of targeted therapy for this HES variant. In this study, we used whole genome arrays to examine gene expression in the CD3(-)CD4(+) T cells and found that 850 genes were differentially regulated during chronic disease compared with CD3(+)CD4(+) T cells from healthy donors. Changes in the expression of 349 genes were altered in association with the clinical progression from chronic L-HES to T lymphoma in 1 patient, with 87 of 349 genes representing further changes in genes whose expression was altered in all chronic disease patients (87 of 850). Array analysis after CD2/CD28-mediated activation revealed that the major gene expression changes observed in the CD3(-)CD4(+) T cells do not reflect activation induced alterations but rather pathways involved in T-cell homeostasis, including transforming growth factor-beta signaling, apoptosis, and T-cell maturation, signaling, and migration. Examination of microRNA expression in the CD3(-)CD4(+) T cells from patients with chronic disease identified 23 microRNAs that changed significantly, among which miR-125a further decreased in association with one patient's evolution to T lymphoma.

19625769.txt

The tumor suppressor microRNA-101 becomes an epigenetic player by targeting the polycomb group protein EZH2 in cancer.

19723773.txt

miR-290 acts as a physiological effector of senescence in mouse embryo fibroblasts. The culture-induced senescence of mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF) correlates with reduction of cell proliferation. In this work we found that the accumulation of cells with 4C DNA content and the transcriptional change of several microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) are relevant events in culture senescence. By comparing the miRNA expression profiles of physiologically senescent MEF and that of senescent MEF induced by the downregulation of leukemia-related factor, we identified miR-290 as a common upregulated miRNA. When miR-290 was transfected in presenescent MEF, SA-beta-gal(+) cells and p16, two markers of culture senescence, increased compared with control, indicating that miR-290 is causally involved in senescence. Interestingly, nocodazole (NCZ), which induces G2/M block, increased the percentage of senescent cells as well as the expression of miR-290 and of the tumor suppressor p16, thus mimicking culture senescence. As miR-290 was overexpressed in NCZ-treated cells and it was able to induce senescence in proliferating MEF, we investigated whether miR-290 and NCZ could share common mechanisms of culture senescence. Whereas the induction of SA-beta-gal(+) by miR-290 was not strengthened by coupling its transfection with NCZ treatment, the transfection of the antagomir 290 (d-290) plus NCZ treatment, while blocking cells at G2/M, suppressed SA-beta-gal(+) and p16 induction. On the basis of these findings we conclude that miR-290 might act as a physiological effector of NCZ induced as well as culture senescence via p16 regulation expanding the role of this miRNA from embryonic stem to differentiated cells.

19839716.txt

Targeting miR-205 in breast cancer. As small non-coding regulatory RNAs, microRNAs are capable of silencing gene expression by translational repression or mRNA degradation. Accumulating evidence indicates that deregulation of microRNAs is often associated with human malignancies and suggests a causal role of microRNAs in neoplasia, presumably because microRNAs can function as oncogenes or tumor suppressors. Among them, miR-205 is significantly underexpressed in breast tumors compared with matched normal breast tissue although miR-205 has been shown to be upregulated in some other type of tumors. Furthermore, breast cancer cell lines, including MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231, express a lower level of miR-205 than the non-malignant MCF-10A cells. Ectopic expression of miR-205 significantly inhibits cell proliferation and anchorage-independent growth as well as cell invasion. These findings establish the tumor suppressive role of miR-205, which is probably through direct targeting of oncogenes such as ErbB3 and Zeb1. Therefore, miR-205 may serve as a unique therapeutic target for breast cancer.

19881472.txt

Common genetic variants in pre-microRNAs are associated with risk of coal workers' pneumoconiosis. microRNAs (miRNAs) are an abundant class of small noncoding RNA molecules thought to be involved in biological functions, including embryonic development, chromosome architecture, cell proliferation and apoptosis. We hypothesized that common variants in the miRNAs are associated with risk of coal workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP). In a case-control study of 496 CWP patients and 513 control subjects frequency matched by exposure years and work types, we genotyped four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (rs2910164, rs2292832, rs11614913 and rs3746444) in pre-miRNAs (miR-146a, miR-149, miR-196a2 and miR-499) and assessed the associations with risk of CWP. A significantly increased risk of CWP was found for the miR-149 rs2292832 TT genotype (odds ratio (OR), 1.31; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.01-1.69), compared with the CT/CC genotypes, and this increased risk was evident among subgroups of those aged > or =68 years (OR=1.52, 95% CI=1.03-2.25), dust exposure > or =26 years (OR=1.42, 95% CI=1.04-1.93) and ever smokers (OR=1.48, 95% CI=1.00-2.20). Furthermore, a significant association was observed between the genotypes and patients with stages II and III (OR=1.50, 95% CI=1.05-2.14 for stage II, and OR=3.33, 95% CI=1.67-6.65 for stage III). These results suggest that miR-149 rs2292832 polymorphism is involved in susceptibility to developing CWP.

19956414.txt

Role of miR-29b on the regulation of the extracellular matrix in human trabecular meshwork cells under chronic oxidative stress. PURPOSE: To investigate the role of miR-29b on the changes in expression of genes involved in the synthesis and deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) induced by chronic oxidative stress in human trabecular meshwork cells (HTM). METHODS: Changes in gene expression induced by miR-29b in HTM cells were evaluated by gene array analysis using Affymetrix U133A2 arrays and confirmed by quantitative-PCR. Pathway analysis was conducted using Metacore. Targeting of miR-29b to the 3'-untranslated region of three novel putative targets was evaluated using the Psicheck luciferase system. Chronic oxidative stress was induced by incubation at 40% oxygen for 4-5 days, using cultures incubated at 5% oxygen as controls. Changes in expression in microRNA or gene expression were analyzed by Q-PCR. Cell viability was measured by lactate dehydrogenase release. RESULTS: Transfection of HTM cells with miR-29b mimic resulted in downregulation of multiple ECM components, including collagens (COL1A1, COL1A2, COL4A1, COL5A1, COL5A2, COL3A1) LAMC1, and FBN as well as several genes involved in ECM deposition and remodeling, such as SPARC/osteonectin. Three additional genes, BMP1, ADAM12, and NKIRAS2, were identified as direct targets of miR-29b. Chronic oxidative stress induced a significant downregulation of miR-29b in two HTM cell lines that was associated with increased expression of several ECM genes known to be regulated by miR-29b. The increase in expression of these genes was inhibited by transfection with miR-29b mimic. MiR-29b increased cell viability under both chronic oxidative stress and physiologic oxygen concentrations. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-29b negatively regulates the expression of multiple genes involved in the synthesis and deposition of ECM in trabecular meshwork (TM) cells. Downregulation of miR-29b might contribute to increased expression of several ECM genes under chronic oxidative stress conditions. The balance between the activation of ECM production induced by oxidative stress and the protective effects of miR-29b could be a relevant factor in understanding how oxidative damage may lead to increased deposition of ECM in the TM and contribute to the elevation of intra-ocular pressure in glaucoma.

20012062.txt

Upregulation of mir-221 and mir-222 in atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors: potential therapeutic targets. PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to search for new therapeutic targets for atypical teratoid-rhabdoid tumors (ATRT). METHODS: To achieve this, we compared the expression of 365 microRNAs among ATRT, medulloblastomas, and normal brain. RESULTS: MiR-221 and miR-222 were within the top differentially expressed microRNAs. The deregulated expression of miR221/222 was demonstrated to inhibit the expression of the tumor suppressor and inhibitor of cell cycle p27(Kip1). Here, we demonstrated the negative regulation of p27(Kip1) by miR-221/222 in ATRT using microarray, real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and immunohistochemistry. CONCLUSION: As anti-miR therapy was recently proposed as an alternative treatment for cancer, these findings suggest that anti-miR-221/222 therapy might have therapeutic potential in ATRT.

20017139.txt

MicroRNA miR-146a is induced by HTLV-1 tax and increases the growth of HTLV-1-infected T-cells. Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia (ATL), which is an aggressive and fatal CD4(+) T cell malignancy. MicroRNA (miRNA), a novel class of RNA that regulates gene expression, is involved in many cellular processes such as growth, development and apoptosis. It has recently been linked to several cancer phenotypes. However, aberrant miRNA expression and its pathologic significance in ATL are not well documented. Here, we investigated the role of miRNAs in HTLV-1-related leukemogenesis. The results showed that miR-146a was upregulated in HTLV-1-infected T-cell lines compared to uninfected T-cell lines. Tax-induced miR-146a expression in a NF-kappaB-dependent manner and inhibited the expression of gene harboring the target sequence of miR-146a on its 3'UTR. Inhibition of miR-146a function by anti-miRNA inhibitor reduced the proliferation of HTLV-1-infected T-cell lines but not that of uninfected T-cell lines. Moreover, overexpression of miR-146a enhanced the growth of an HTLV-1-infected T-cell line. Our findings suggest that miR-146a is a potentially suitable therapeutic target of ATL.

20046097.txt

miR-449 regulates CDK-Rb-E2F1 through an auto-regulatory feedback circuit.

20103675.txt

MiR-222 overexpression confers cell migratory advantages in hepatocellular carcinoma through enhancing AKT signaling. PURPOSE: This study aims to profile the expressions of 156 microRNAs (miRNA) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and to characterize the functions of miR-222, the most significantly upregulated candidate identified. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: miRNA expression profile in HCC tumors, matching adjacent cirrhotic livers, and cell lines was conducted using quantitative PCR. Common miR-222 upregulations were further validated in a larger cohort of tumors. The functional effects of miR-222 inhibition on HCC cell lines were examined. The downstream modulated pathways and target of miR-222 were investigated by coupling gene expression profiling and pathway analysis, and by in silico prediction, respectively. Luciferase reporter assay was done to confirm target interaction. RESULTS: We identified a 40-miRNA signature that could discriminate tumors from adjacent cirrhotic liver tissue, and further corroborated common miR-222 overexpression in tumors relative to its premalignant counterpart (55.3%; P < 0.0001). Increased miR-222 expression correlated significantly with advanced stage HCC and with the shorter disease-free survival of patients (P < or = 0.01). Inhibition of miR-222 in Hep3B and HKCI-9 significantly retarded cell motility (P < 0.05). Further investigations suggested that AKT signaling was the major pathway influenced by miR-222. A consistent reduction of AKT phosphorylation in Hep3B and HKCI-9 was shown following miR-222 suppression. The protein phosphatase 2A subunit B (PPP2R2A) was predicted as a putative miR-222 target in silico. We found that miR-222 inhibition could augment the tumor protein level and restore luciferase activity in reporter construct containing the PPP2R2A 3' untranslated region (P = 0.0066). CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed that miR-222 overexpression is common in HCC and could confer metastatic potentials in HCC cells, possibly through activating AKT signaling.

20143188.txt

miRNA-21 regulates arsenic-induced anti-leukemia activity in myelogenous cell lines. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small noncoding RNA molecules involved in modulation of cellular sensitivity to anti-cancer drugs. miRNA-21 (miR-21), one of the most prominent miRNAs in the genesis and progression of many human cancers, has been rarely characterized in myelogenous leukemia. Arsenic trioxide (ATO) was successfully used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) etc. However, cytotoxicity or insensitivity is a major concern in the successful treatment of leukemia. Here, we used a specific precursor miRNA-21 (pre-miR-21) or anti-miRNA-21 oligonucleotide (AMO-miR-21) to study sensitivity of HL60 and K562 cells to ATO. Cell viability and cell cycle were evaluated by MTT assay and PI assay using flow cytometry, respectively. Levels of miR-21 and its target PDCD4 were quantified by real-time PCR and/or western blot. AMO-miR-21 or ATO alone led to growth inhibition, apoptosis and G1 phase arrest of cell cycle. Apoptotic cells were confirmed morphologically with Hoechst staining. Moreover, there was somewhat synergistic effect of AMO-miR-21 and ATO in growth inhibition and apoptosis promotion. Meanwhile, enforced pre-miR-21 expression increased resistance to ATO, nevertheless not affecting cell growth alone. Dual-luciferase reporter vector containing two tandem PDCD4 3' UTR validated that PDCD4 was directly up-regulated by miR-21. Therefore, miRNA-21 by targeting PDCD4 may play a functional role in modulating ATO-induced cell death, and strategy using AMO-miR-21 and its combination with ATO may be useful as a myelogenous leukemia therapy.

20183876.txt

Identifying co-regulating microRNA groups. BACKGROUND: Current miRNA target prediction tools have the common problem that their false positive rate is high. This renders identification of co-regulating groups of miRNAs and target genes unreliable. In this study, we describe a procedure to identify highly probable co-regulating miRNAs and the corresponding co-regulated gene groups. Our procedure involves a sequence of statistical tests: (1) identify genes that are highly probable miRNA targets; (2) determine for each such gene, the minimum number of miRNAs that co-regulate it with high probability; (3) find, for each such gene, the combination of the determined minimum size of miRNAs that co-regulate it with the lowest p-value; and (4) discover for each such combination of miRNAs, the group of genes that are co-regulated by these miRNAs with the lowest p-value computed based on GO term annotations of the genes. RESULTS: Our method identifies 4, 3 and 2-term miRNA groups that co-regulate gene groups of size at least 3 in human. Our result suggests some interesting hypothesis on the functional role of several miRNAs through a "guilt by association" reasoning. For example, miR-130, miR-19 and miR-101 are known neurodegenerative diseases associated miRNAs. Our 3-term miRNA table shows that miR-130/19/101 form a co-regulating group of rank 22 (p-value =1.16 x 10(-2)). Since miR-144 is co-regulating with miR-130, miR-19 and miR-101 of rank 4 (p-value = 1.16 x 10(-2)) in our 4-term miRNA table, this suggests hsa-miR-144 may be neurodegenerative diseases related miRNA. CONCLUSIONS: This work identifies highly probable co-regulating miRNAs, which are refined from the prediction by computational tools using (1) signal-to-noise ratio to get high accurate regulating miRNAs for every gene, and (2) Gene Ontology to obtain functional related co-regulating miRNA groups. Our result has partly been supported by biological experiments. Based on prediction by TargetScanS, we found highly probable target gene groups in the Supplementary Information. This result might help biologists to find small set of miRNAs for genes of interest rather than huge amount of miRNA set. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: http://www.deakin.edu.au/~phoebe/JBCBAnChen/JBCB.htm.

20229273.txt

A polymorphism of microRNA196a genome region was associated with decreased risk of glioma in Chinese population. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that play important roles in regulation of eukaryotic gene expression. Aberrant expression and structural alternation of miRNAs are considered to participate in tumorigenesis and cancer development. Recently, different genotypes of miR-196a polymorphisms (SNP, rs11614913) were found to be associated with the survival of patients with lung cancer and increased risk of breast cancer. To further investigate whether this polymorphism may influence glioma risk or not, we examined the SNP allele frequency in Chinese population. Our data shows the genotype CC of miR-196a (rs11614913) polymorphism is associated with decreased risk of glioma in the Chinese population (OR = 0.74, 95% CI:0.56-0.98). Furthermore, a significant association was observed between this genotype and glioma risk in the subgroups of adult glioma (OR = 0.73, 95% CI:0.55-0.98), male glioma (OR = 0.69, 95% CI:0.48-0.99) and patients with glioblastoma (OR = 0.58, 95% CI:0.37-0.91). This was the first study investigating the association between the miR-196a rs11614913 and glioma risk. Compared with the results from previous studies in lung cancer and breast cancer, our data suggest a different genotype association in glioma. This may be related to the diversity on the tissue origin, tumor type, tumorigenesis, and developing process.

20299489.txt

MicroRNA-34a inhibits cell proliferation by repressing mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 during megakaryocytic differentiation of K562 cells. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) induces megakaryocytic differentiation of the human chronic myelocytic leukemia cell line K562. We examined the potential regulatory role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in this process. Genome-wide expression profiling identified 21 miRNAs (miRs) that were induced by the treatment of K562 cells with PMA. Among them, the expression of miR-34a, miR-221, and miR-222 was induced in the early stages and maintained throughout the late stages of differentiation. Cell signaling analysis showed that the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) in response to PMA strongly induced miR-34a expression by transactivation via the activator protein-1 binding site in the upstream region of the miR-34a gene. Reporter gene assays identified mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MEK1) as a direct target of miR-34a and c-fos as a direct target of miR-221/222. Although overexpression of the three miRNAs had little effect on cell differentiation, overexpression of miR-34a significantly repressed the proliferation of K562 cells with a concomitant reduction in MEK1 protein expression. Conversely, a locked nucleic acid probe against miR-34a significantly enhanced the proliferation of PMA-treated K562 cells. Taken together, the results show that PMA activates the MEK-ERK pathway and strongly induces miRNA-34a expression, which in turn inhibits cell proliferation by repressing the expression of MEK1. Thus, the results highlight an important regulatory role for miR-34a in the process of megakaryocytic differentiation, especially in the arrest of cell growth, which is a prerequisite for cells to enter differentiation.

20462046.txt

[Study on the sensitivity of leukemic cells to arsenic trioxide enhanced by targeted suppression of mIRNA-21]. OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of antisense oligonucleotide targeted on miRNA-21 (AMO-miR-21) for enhancing the arsenic trioxide (As2O3) sensitivity of leukemic K562 cells and its possible acting mechanism. METHODS: Chemosynthetic AMO-miR-21 was transfected to K562 cells using Lipofectamine TM 2000. The inhibitory effects of As2O3 and AMO-miR-21, used singly or in combining, on cell proliferation were detected by MTT, their inhibition rate and IC50 were calculated. Cell cycle and apoptosis were assessed with PI stain; expression of miRNA-21 in cells was detected quantitatively by real-time PCR, and the potential target gene PDCD, protein expression was detected by immuno-fluorimetry. RESULTS: Used in combining with AMO-miR-21, the IC50 of As2O3, could be lowered from 2.1 micromol/L to 1.23 micromol/L, and the sensitivity of cells to As2O3 increased to 1.78-fold; with the amount of apoptotic cells increased significantly. Transfection with AMO-miR-21 alone could downregulate the expression of miRNA-21 in cells (P < 0.01), and up-regulate PDCD, protein expression level significantly. CONCLUSIONS: Combined use of AMO-miR-21 and As2O3 could increase the sensitivity of K562 cells to As2O3, which provides a novel potential approach for treatment of leukemia. AMO-miR-21 realizes it anti-tumor action by way of targeted inhibition on miRNA-21, and further up-regulates the expression of anti-tumor gene PDCD4.

20466450.txt

A functional polymorphism in the pre-microRNA-196a2 and the risk of lung cancer in a Korean population.

20473869.txt

Circulating miRNAs are correlated with tumor progression in prostate cancer. Circulating miRNAs have recently been indicated as practicable and promising biomarkers for noninvasive diagnosis in various tumor entities. However, cell-free miRNAs have not been found to correlate with clinicopathological variables in epithelial carcinomas. To learn more about the potential clinical relevance of circulating miRNAs in prostate cancer, we screened 667 miRNAs in serum samples from patients with metastatic (n = 7) and localized prostate cancer (n = 14). Various miRNAs were highly abundant in the sera of patients with metastatic disease, and five upregulated miRNAs (miRNA-375, miRNA-9*, miRNA-141, miRNA-200b and miRNA-516a-3p) were selected for further validation. In the first validation study (n = 45), selected miRNAs were analyzed in a prospectively collected serum set taken from different prostate cancer risk groups. Most of the selected miRNAs were significantly correlated with adverse risk factors when different clinicopathological variables were analyzed. Circulating miRNA-375 and miRNA-141 turned out to be the most pronounced markers for high-risk tumors. Their levels also correlated with high Gleason score or lymph-node positive status in a second independent validation study (n = 71). In addition, the expression levels of miRNA-375 and miRNA-141 were monitored in 72 prostate tissue samples (36 tumor vs. 36 benign). Both miRNAs were highly expressed in all samples and significantly upregulated in the tumors compared to normal tissues. Overall, our observations suggest that miRNA-375 and miRNA-141 expression is enhanced in prostate cancer specimens and their release into the blood is further associated with advanced cancer disease.

20478254.txt

Characterizing light-regulated retinal microRNAs reveals rapid turnover as a common property of neuronal microRNAs. Adaptation to different levels of illumination is central to the function of the retina. Here, we demonstrate that levels of the miR-183/96/182 cluster, miR-204, and miR-211 are regulated by different light levels in the mouse retina. Concentrations of these microRNAs were downregulated during dark adaptation and upregulated in light-adapted retinas, with rapid decay and increased transcription being responsible for the respective changes. We identified the voltage-dependent glutamate transporter Slc1a1 as one of the miR-183/96/182 targets in photoreceptor cells. We found that microRNAs in retinal neurons decay much faster than microRNAs in nonneuronal cells. The high turnover is also characteristic of microRNAs in hippocampal and cortical neurons, and neurons differentiated from ES cells in vitro. Blocking activity reduced turnover of microRNAs in neuronal cells while stimulation with glutamate accelerated it. Our results demonstrate that microRNA metabolism in neurons is higher than in most other cells types and linked to neuronal activity.

20498046.txt

Alternative splicing regulates mouse embryonic stem cell pluripotency and differentiation. Two major goals of regenerative medicine are to reproducibly transform adult somatic cells into a pluripotent state and to control their differentiation into specific cell fates. Progress toward these goals would be greatly helped by obtaining a complete picture of the RNA isoforms produced by these cells due to alternative splicing (AS) and alternative promoter selection (APS). To investigate the roles of AS and APS, reciprocal exon-exon junctions were interrogated on a genome-wide scale in differentiating mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells with a prototype Affymetrix microarray. Using a recently released open-source software package named AltAnalyze, we identified 144 genes for 170 putative isoform variants, the majority (67%) of which were predicted to alter protein sequence and domain composition. Verified alternative exons were largely associated with pathways of Wnt signaling and cell-cycle control, and most were conserved between mouse and human. To examine the functional impact of AS, we characterized isoforms for two genes. As predicted by AltAnalyze, we found that alternative isoforms of the gene Serca2 were targeted by distinct microRNAs (miRNA-200b, miRNA-214), suggesting a critical role for AS in cardiac development. Analysis of the Wnt transcription factor Tcf3, using selective knockdown of an ES cell-enriched and characterized isoform, revealed several distinct targets for transcriptional repression (Stmn2, Ccnd2, Atf3, Klf4, Nodal, and Jun) as well as distinct differentiation outcomes in ES cells. The findings herein illustrate a critical role for AS in the specification of ES cells with differentiation, and highlight the utility of global functional analyses of AS.

20603081.txt

Secreted monocytic miR-150 enhances targeted endothelial cell migration. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of noncoding RNAs that regulate target gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. Here, we report that secreted miRNAs can serve as signaling molecules mediating intercellular communication. In human blood cells and cultured THP-1 cells, miR-150 was selectively packaged into microvesicles (MVs) and actively secreted. THP-1-derived MVs can enter and deliver miR-150 into human HMEC-1 cells, and elevated exogenous miR-150 effectively reduced c-Myb expression and enhanced cell migration in HMEC-1 cells. In vivo studies confirmed that intravenous injection of THP-1 MVs significantly increased the level of miR-150 in mouse blood vessels. MVs isolated from the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis contained higher levels of miR-150, and they more effectively promoted HMEC-1 cell migration than MVs from healthy donors. These results demonstrate that cells can secrete miRNAs and deliver them into recipient cells where the exogenous miRNAs can regulate target gene expression and recipient cell function.

20606648.txt

Nanoparticles modified with tumor-targeting scFv deliver siRNA and miRNA for cancer therapy. Targeted delivery of RNA-based therapeutics for cancer therapy remains a challenge. We have developed a LPH (liposome-polycation-hyaluronic acid) nanoparticle formulation modified with tumor-targeting single-chain antibody fragment (scFv) for systemic delivery of small interfering RNA (siRNA) and microRNA (miRNA) into experimental lung metastasis of murine B16F10 melanoma. The siRNAs delivered by the scFv targeted nanoparticles efficiently downregulated the target genes (c-Myc/MDM2/VEGF) in the lung metastasis. Two daily intravenous injections of the combined siRNAs in the GC4-targeted nanoparticles significantly reduced the tumor load in the lung. miRNA-34a (miR-34a) induced apoptosis, inhibited survivin expression, and downregulated MAPK pathway in B16F10 cells. miR-34a delivered by the GC4-targeted nanoparticles significantly downregulated the survivin expression in the metastatic tumor and reduced tumor load in the lung. When miR-34a and siRNAs were co-formulated in GC4-targeted nanoparticles, an enhanced anticancer effect was observed.

20620960.txt

miR-200c regulates induction of apoptosis through CD95 by targeting FAP-1. Tumor progression shares many characteristics with the process of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Cells that have undergone an EMT are known to have an increased resistance to apoptosis. CD95/Fas is an apoptosis-inducing receptor expressed on many tissues and tumor cells. During tumor progression CD95 is frequently downregulated, and tumor cells lose apoptosis sensitivity. miR-200 microRNAs repress both the EMT-inducing ZEB1 and ZEB2 transcription factors. We now demonstrate that miR-200c sensitizes cells to apoptosis mediated by CD95. We have identified the apoptosis inhibitor FAP-1 as a target for miR-200c. FAP-1 was demonstrated to be responsible for the reduced sensitivity to CD95-mediated apoptosis in cells with inhibited miR-200. The identification of FAP-1 as an miR-200c target provides a molecular mechanism to explain both the downregulation of CD95 expression and the reduction in sensitivity of cells to CD95-mediated apoptosis that is observed in the context of reduced miR-200 expression during tumor progression.

20676061.txt

Unique microRNA profile in Dupuytren's contracture supports deregulation of beta-catenin pathway. Dupuytren's contracture, a proliferative disease of unknown origin, is characterized by an abnormal fibroblast proliferation process. Evidence from numerous microRNA (miRNA) studies shows that miRNAs have a vital function in many biological processes, for instance, in cellular signaling networks, cell growth, tissue differentiation, and cell proliferation. Our aim was to characterize, to our knowledge for the first time, the miRNA-expression profile of Dupuytren's contracture. The miRNAs identified may have a function in the pathogenesis of Dupuytren's contracture by targeting and regulating important pathways. We compared the miRNA-expression profile of 29 Dupuytren's contracture patients with that of control samples (fibroblast cells and palmar fascia). Some of the miRNAs identified in our Dupuytren's contracture samples, including miR-29c, miR-130b, miR-101, miR-30b, and miR-140-3p, were found to regulate important genes related to the beta-catenin pathway: WNT5A, ZIC1, and TGFB1. Expression profiles of these genes reanalyzed from published gene-expression data from similar patient material correlated with our miRNA results. Analysis was also performed for groups of patients with recurrent/non-recurrent and patients with hereditary/non-hereditary Dupuytren's contracture, but no significant differences appeared in miRNA-expression profiles of these groups. Identification of unique miRNA expression in Dupuytren's contracture may lead to the development of novel molecular therapy for its treatment.

20680470.txt

A functional varient in microRNA-146a is associated with risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in Chinese Han. MicroRNAs are a new class of non-proteincoding, small RNAs that function as tumor suppressors or oncogenes. They participate in diverse biological pathways and function as gene regulators. A G>C polymorphism (rs2910164), which is located in the sequence of miR-146a precursor, results in a change from G:U to C:U in its stem region. However, it remains largely unknown whether this single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) may alter esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) susceptibility. In the current study, we evaluated association between rs2910164 and ESCC susceptibility in a case-control study of 444 sporadic ESCC patients and 468 matched cancer-free controls in a Chinese Han population. Compared with rs2910164 variant genotype CC, genotype GG was associated with increased risk of ESCC (Odds Ratio, 2.39, 95% Confidence Interval, 1.36-4.20). In the smokers, the risk of rs2910164 GG genotype was more notable (Odds Ratio, 3.17, 95% Confidence Interval, 1.71-4.46). In the stratification analyses, we also found there was a strong correlation between rs2910164 C/G variant and the clinical TNM stage (P < 0.01). These findings suggest that this functional SNP in pre-miR-146a could contribute to ESCC susceptibility and clinical outcome.

20736365.txt

Ratio of miR-196s to HOXC8 messenger RNA correlates with breast cancer cell migration and metastasis. Expression profiling has identified metastasis-associated microRNAs (miRNA) but technical limitations hinder the discovery of metastasis-suppressing miRNAs. In this study, we sought metastasis-suppressing miRNAs by functional screening. Individual miRNAs were lentivirally introduced into metastatic MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and analyzed for effects on cell migration, a critical step in cancer metastasis. Among 486 miRNAs screened, 14 were identified that included all of the members of the miRNA-196 family (miR-196a1, miR-196a2, and miR-196b). Enforced expression of miR-196a1/2 or miR-196b abrogated in vitro invasion and in vivo spontaneous metastasis of breast cancer cells, indicating that members of the miR-196 family are potent metastasis suppressors. We found that miR-196 inhibited the expression of transcription factor HOXC8. Functional linkage was implied by small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of HOXC8, which suppressed cell migration and metastasis, and by ectopic expression of HOXC8, which prevented the effects of miR-196 on cell migration and metastasis. Unlike other metastasis-associated miRNAs that have been described, the expressions of miR-196 were not correlated with breast cancer cell migration or the metastatic status of clinical breast tumor specimens. Instead, we detected an excellent correlation between the ratio of miR-196 to HOXC8 messages and the migratory behavior of breast cancer cell lines as well as the metastatic status of clinical samples. Our findings identify miRNA-196s as potent metastasis suppressors and reveal that the ratio of miR-196s to HOXC8 mRNA might be an indicator of the metastatic capability of breast tumors.

20815877.txt

Cooperative and individualistic functions of the microRNAs in the miR-23a~27a~24-2 cluster and its implication in human diseases. The small RNA molecules of about 19-22 nucleotides in length, aptly called microRNAs, perform the task of gene regulation in the cell. Interestingly, till the early nineties very little was known about them but eventually, the microRNAs have become forefront in the area of research. The huge number of microRNAs plus each one of them targeting a vast number of related as well as unrelated genes makes them very interesting molecules to study. To add to the mystery of miRNAs is the fact that the same miRNA can have antagonizing role in two different cell types i.e. in one cell type; the miRNA promotes proliferation whereas in another cell type the same miRNA inhibits proliferation. Another remarkable aspect of the microRNAs is that many of them exist in clusters. In humans alone, out of 721 microRNAs known, 247 of them occur in 64 clusters at an inter-miRNA distance of less than 5000 bp. The reason for this clustering of miRNAs is not fully understood but since the miRNA clusters are evolutionary conserved, their significance cannot be ruled out. The objective of this review is to summarize the recent progress on the functional characterization of miR-23a~27a~24-2 cluster in humans in relation to various health and diseased conditions and to highlight the cooperative effects of the miRNAs of this cluster.

20859756.txt

Differential miRNA expression and their target genes between NGX6-positive and negative colon cancer cells. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma-associated gene 6 (NGX6) was shown to be a novel putative tumor suppressor gene in colon cancer. The purpose of this study is to investigate its role in regulation of miRNA expression for in the hopes of translating this data into a novel strategy in control of colon cancer. In this study colon cancer HT-29 cells were stably transfected with NGX6 or vector-only plasmid and then subjected to miRNA array analysis, and Q-RT-PCR was then used to verify miRNA array data. Then bioinformatic analyses using Sanger, Target Scan, and MicroRNA software were performed to obtain data on the target genes of each miRNA and define their function. Our results showed that 14 miRNAs were found to be differentially expressed in NGX6-transfected cells compared to the control cells. In particular, miR-126, miR-142-3p, miR-155, miR-552, and miR-630 were all upregulated, whereas miR-146a, miR-152, miR-205, miR-365, miR-449, miR-518c, miR-584, miR-615, and miR-622 were downregulated after NGX6 transfection. Q-RT-PCR confirmed all of these miRNAs, and invalidated miR-552 and miR-630. Furthermore, bioinformatic analyses of these 12 miRNAs, among these miRNAs, target genes of miR-615 are unclear, another 11 miRNAs produced a total of 254 potential target genes and further study showed that these genes together formed a regulatory network that contributes to apoptosis, mobility/migration, hydrolysis activity, and molecular signaling through targeting JNK and Notch pathways. Taken together, these results have suggested that NGX6 plays an important role in regulation of apoptosis, mobility/migration, and hydrolase as well as activity of JNK and Notch pathways through NGX6-mediated miRNA expression. Further investigation will reveal the function of these differentially expressed miRNAs and verify expression of the miRNA-targeted genes for development of novel strategies for better control of colon cancer.

20920300.txt

Context-dependent functions of specific microRNAs in neuronal development. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that regulate multiple developmental processes at the post-transcriptional level. Recent rapid progresses have demonstrated critical roles for a number of miRNAs in neuronal development and function. In particular, miR-9 and miR-124 are specifically expressed in the mammalian nervous system, and their respective nucleotide sequences are 100% identical among many species. Yet, their expression patterns and mRNA targets are less conserved throughout evolution. As a consequence, these miRNAs exhibit diverse context-dependent functions in different aspects of neuronal development, ranging from early neurogenesis and neuronal differentiation to dendritic morphogenesis and synaptic plasticity. Some other neuronal miRNAs also exhibit context-dependent functions in development. Thus, post-transcriptional regulation of spatial and temporal expression levels of protein-coding genes by miRNAs contributes uniquely to the proper development and evolution of the complex nervous system.

20945501.txt

Androgen regulation of micro-RNAs in prostate cancer. BACKGROUND: Androgens play a critical role in the growth of both androgen dependent and castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Only a few micro-RNAs (miRNAs) have been suggested to be androgen regulated. We aim to identify androgen regulated miRNAs. METHODS: We utilized LNCaP derived model, we have established, and which overexpresses the androgen receptor (AR), the VCaP cell line, and 13 intact-castrated prostate cancer (PC) xenograft pairs, as well as clinical specimens of untreated (PC) and CRPC. The expression of miRNAs was analyzed by microarrays and quantitative RT-PCR (Q-RT-PCR). Transfection of pre-miR-141 and anti-miR-141 was also used. RESULTS: Seventeen miRNAs were > 1.5-fold up- or downregulated upon dihydrotestosterone (DHT) treatment in the cell lines, and 42 after castration in the AR-positive xenografts. Only four miRNAs (miR-10a, miR-141, miR-150*, and miR-1225-5p) showed similar androgen regulation in both cell lines and xenografts. Of those, miR-141 was found to be expressed more in PC and CRPC compared to benign prostate hyperplasia. Additionally, the overexpression of miR-141 enhanced growth of parental LNCaP cells while inhibition of miR-141 by anti-miR-141 suppressed the growth of the LNCaP subline overexpressing AR. CONCLUSIONS: Only a few miRNAs were found to be androgen-regulated in both cell lines and xenografts models. Of those, the expression of miR-141 was upregulated in cancer. The ectopic overexpression of miR-141 increased growth of LNCaP cell suggesting it may contribute to the progression of PC.

20947507.txt

NF-kappaB down-regulates expression of the B-lymphoma marker CD10 through a miR-155/PU.1 pathway. Cell-surface protein CD10 is a prognostic marker for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), where high expression of CD10 is found in the germinal center B-cell (GCB) subtype and CD10 expression is low or absent in the activated B-cell (ABC) subtype. As compared with the GCB subtype, patients with ABC DLBCL have a poorer prognosis after standard treatment, and ABC tumor cells have higher NF-kappaB activity. Herein, we show that increased expression of the NF-kappaB target micro-RNA miR-155 is correlated with reduced expression of transcription factor PU.1 and CD10 in several B-lymphoma cell lines. Moreover, electromobility shift assays and luciferase reporter assays indicate that PU.1 can directly activate expression from the CD10 promoter. Expression of a DLBCL-derived mutant of the adaptor CARD11 (a constitutive activator of NF-kappaB) in the GCB-like human BJAB cell line or v-Rel in the chicken DT40 B-lymphoma cell line causes reduced expression of PU.1. The CARD11 mutant also causes a decrease in CD10 levels in BJAB cells. Similarly, overexpression of miR-155, which is known to down-regulate PU.1, leads to reduced expression of CD10 in BJAB cells. Finally, we show that CD10 expression is reduced in BJAB cells after treatment with the NF-kappaB inducer lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Additionally, miR-155 is induced by LPS treatment or expression of the CARD11 mutant in BJAB cells. These results point to an NF-kappaB-dependent mechanism for down-regulation of CD10 in B-cell lymphoma: namely, that increased NF-kappaB activity leads to increased miR-155, which results in decreased PU.1, and consequently reduced CD10 mRNA and protein.

21086055.txt

Identification of differentially expressed microRNA in parathyroid tumors. BACKGROUND: The molecular factors that control parathyroid tumorigenesis are poorly understood. In the absence of local invasion or metastasis, distinguishing benign from malignant parathyroid neoplasm is difficult on histologic examination. We studied the microRNA (miRNA) profile in normal, hyperplastic, and benign and malignant parathyroid tumors to better understand the molecular factors that may play a role in parathyroid tumorigenesis and that may serve as diagnostic markers for parathyroid carcinoma. METHODS: miRNA arrays containing 825 human microRNAs with four duplicate probes per miRNA were used to profile parathyroid tumor (12 adenomas, 9 carcinomas, and 15 hyperplastic) samples normalized to four reference normal parathyroid glands. Differentially expressed miRNA were validated by real-time quantitative TaqMan polymerase chain reaction (PCR). RESULTS: One hundred fifty-six miRNAs in parathyroid hyperplasia, 277 microRNAs in parathyroid adenoma, and 167 microRNAs in parathyroid carcinomas were significantly dysregulated as compared with normal parathyroid glands [false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05]. By supervised clustering analysis, all parathyroid carcinomas clustered together. Three miRNAs (miR-26b, miR-30b, and miR-126*) were significantly dysregulated between parathyroid carcinoma and parathyroid adenoma. Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis showed mir-126* was the best diagnostic marker, with area under the curve of 0.776. CONCLUSIONS: Most miRNAs are downregulated in parathyroid carcinoma, while in parathyroid hyperplasia most miRNAs are upregulated. miRNA profiling shows distinct differentially expressed miRNAs by tumor type which may serve as helpful adjunct to distinguish parathyroid adenoma from carcinoma.

21088996.txt

Knockdown of microRNA-21 inhibits proliferation and increases cell death by targeting programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to examine the expression of a panel of five microRNAs (miRNA) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and the functional effect of miR-21 inhibition in PDAC cell lines. BACKGROUND: miRNA are short, non-coding RNA molecules, which play important roles in several cellular processes by silencing expression of their target genes through translational repression or mRNA degradation. They are often aberrantly expressed in cancer, and this dysregulation can promote carcinogenesis by altering the expression of tumour suppressor or oncogenes. METHODS: miRNA expression levels were measured in 24 PDAC tumour/matched adjacent normal tissue samples and three PDAC cell lines using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Levels of cell proliferation and death and expression of programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4; tumour suppressor) were studied in PDAC cells (MIA-Pa-Ca-2) in the absence or presence of a miR-21 inhibitor. RESULTS: PDAC primary tissues and cell lines displayed a consistent upregulation of miR-21 (P < 0.0001) and downregulation of both miR-148a (P < 0.0001) and miR-375 (P < 0.0001) relative to adjacent normal tissue. Furthermore, miR-21 levels in the primary tumours correlated with disease stage (P < 0.0001). Inhibition of miR-21 in MIA-Pa-Ca-2 PDAC cells led to reduced cell proliferation (P < 0.01) and increased cell death (P < 0.01), with simultaneous increase in levels of the tumour suppressor, PDCD4 (P < 0.01). CONCLUSION: miRNA expression profiles may be used as biomarkers for detecting pancreatic cancer. Moreover, miR-21 could be a predictor of disease progression and a possible therapeutic target in part by upregulating PDCD4 in pancreatic cancer.

21276775.txt

MicroRNAs 144, 145, and 214 are down-regulated in primary neurons responding to sciatic nerve transection. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in the development, differentiation, proliferation, survival, and oncogenesis of cells and organisms including nervous system. However, the role of miRNAs in primary neurons of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after injury was not clear. In this study, a miRNA microarray analysis was performed, and a total of 21 miRNAs were found to be down-regulated following unilateral sciatic nerve transection. The miR-144, miR-145, and miR-214 were further validated using quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR). Moreover, in situ hybridization (ISH) experiments using locked nucleic acid (LNA)-modified DNA oligonucleotide probes verified that miR-144, miR-145, and miR-214 were expressed in primary neurons of DRG and down-regulated following sciatic nerve transection. Predictions of potential miRNA targets involved were identified by performing a bioinformatics analysis. These predictions were tested using miRNA luciferase reporter vectors, with Robo2 and srGAP2 evaluated as the potential targets of miR-145 and miR-214, respectively. The role of miR-145 in cultured primary neurons was also investigated, and the result found that miR-145 miR-145 inhibited neurite growth and down-regulated Robo2 expression. Finding from this study suggested that miRNAs of DRG can mediated the course of regeneration including through Slit-Robo-srGAP signaling pathway after injury.

21285947.txt

miRNAs control insulin content in pancreatic beta-cells via downregulation of transcriptional repressors. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) were shown to be important for pancreas development, yet their roles in differentiated beta-cells remain unclear. Here, we show that miRNA inactivation in beta-cells of adult mice results in a striking diabetic phenotype. While islet architecture is intact and differentiation markers are maintained, Dicer1-deficient beta-cells show a dramatic decrease in insulin content and insulin mRNA. As a consequence of the change in insulin content, the animals become diabetic. We provide evidence for involvement of a set of miRNAs in regulating insulin synthesis. The specific knockdown of miR-24, miR-26, miR-182 or miR-148 in cultured beta-cells or in isolated primary islets downregulates insulin promoter activity and insulin mRNA levels. Further, miRNA-dependent regulation of insulin expression is associated with upregulation of transcriptional repressors, including Bhlhe22 and Sox6. Thus, miRNAs in the adult pancreas act in a new network that reinforces insulin expression by reducing the expression of insulin transcriptional repressors.

21347332.txt

MicroRNA-21 exhibits antiangiogenic function by targeting RhoB expression in endothelial cells. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenously expressed small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression at post-transcriptional level. The recent discovery of the involvement of these RNAs in the control of angiogenesis renders them very attractive in the development of new approaches for restoring the angiogenic balance. Whereas miRNA-21 has been demonstrated to be highly expressed in endothelial cells, the potential function of this miRNA in angiogenesis has never been investigated. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We first observed in endothelial cells a negative regulation of miR-21 expression by serum and bFGF, two pro-angiogenic factors. Then using in vitro angiogenic assays, we observed that miR-21 acts as a negative modulator of angiogenesis. miR-21 overexpression reduced endothelial cell proliferation, migration and the ability of these cells to form tubes whereas miR-21 inhibition using a LNA-anti-miR led to opposite effects. Expression of miR-21 in endothelial cells also led to a reduction in the organization of actin into stress fibers, which may explain the decrease in cell migration. Further mechanistic studies showed that miR-21 targets RhoB, as revealed by a decrease in RhoB expression and activity in miR-21 overexpressing cells. RhoB silencing impairs endothelial cell migration and tubulogenesis, thus providing a possible mechanism for miR-21 to inhibit angiogenesis. Finally, the therapeutic potential of miR-21 as an angiogenesis inhibitor was demonstrated in vivo in a mouse model of choroidal neovascularization. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our results identify miR-21 as a new angiogenesis inhibitor and suggest that inhibition of cell migration and tubulogenesis is mediated through repression of RhoB.

21415212.txt

Genomic loss of miR-486 regulates tumor progression and the OLFM4 antiapoptotic factor in gastric cancer. PURPOSE: MicroRNAs (miRNA) play pivotal oncogenic and tumor-suppressor roles in several human cancers. We sought to discover novel tumor-suppressor miRNAs in gastric cancer (GC). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using Agilent miRNA microarrays, we compared miRNA expression profiles of 40 primary gastric tumors and 40 gastric normal tissues, identifying miRNAs significantly downregulated in gastric tumors. RESULTS: Among the top 80 miRNAs differentially expressed between gastric tumors and normals (false discovery rate < 0.01), we identified hsa-miR-486 (miR-486) as a significantly downregulated miRNA in primary GCs and GC cell lines. Restoration of miR-486 expression in GC cell lines (YCC3, SCH and AGS) caused suppression of several pro-oncogenic traits, whereas conversely inhibiting miR-486 expression in YCC6 GC cells enhanced cellular proliferation. Array-CGH analysis of 106 primary GCs revealed genomic loss of the miR-486 locus in approximately 25% to 30% of GCs, including two tumors with focal genomic losses specifically deleting miR-486, consistent with miR-486 playing a tumor-suppressive role. Bioinformatic analysis identified the secreted antiapoptotic glycoprotein OLFM4 as a potential miR-486 target. Restoring miR-486 expression in GC cells decreased endogenous OLFM4 transcript and protein levels, and also inhibited expression of luciferase reporters containing an OLFM4 3' untranslated region with predicted miR-486 binding sites. Supporting the biological relevance of OLFM4 as a miR-486 target, proliferation in GC cells was also significantly reduced by OLFM4 silencing. CONCLUSIONS: miR-486 may function as a novel tumor-suppressor miRNA in GC. Its antioncogenic activity may involve the direct targeting and inhibition of OLFM4.

21454627.txt

mSEL-1L (Suppressor/enhancer Lin12-like) protein levels influence murine neural stem cell self-renewal and lineage commitment. Murine SEL-1L (mSEL-1L) is a key component of the endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation pathway. It is essential during development as revealed by the multi-organ dysfunction and in uterus lethality occurring in homozygous mSEL-1L-deficient mice. Here we show that mSEL-1L is highly expressed in pluripotent embryonic stem cells and multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs) but silenced in all mature neural derivatives (i.e. astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons) by mmu-miR-183. NSCs derived from homozygous mSEL-1L-deficient embryos (mSEL-1L(-/-) NSCs) fail to proliferate in vitro, show a drastic reduction of the Notch effector HES-5, and reveal a significant down-modulation of the early neural progenitor markers PAX-6 and OLIG-2, when compared with the wild type (mSEL-1L(+/+) NSCs) counterpart. Furthermore, these cells are almost completely deprived of the neural marker Nestin, display a significant decrease of SOX-2 expression, and rapidly undergo premature astrocytic commitment and apoptosis. The data suggest severe self-renewal defects occurring in these cells probably mediated by misregulation of the Notch signaling. The results reported here denote mSEL-1L as a primitive marker with a possible involvement in the regulation of neural progenitor stemness maintenance and lineage determination.

21483773.txt

Association of MiR-126 with soluble mesothelin-related peptides, a marker for malignant mesothelioma. BACKGROUND: Improved detection methods for diagnosis of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) are essential for early and reliable detection as well as treatment. Since recent data point to abnormal levels of microRNAs (miRNAs) in tumors, we hypothesized that a profile of deregulated miRNAs may be a marker of MPM and that the levels of specific miRNAs may be used for monitoring its progress. METHODS AND RESULTS: miRNAs isolated from fresh-frozen biopsies of MPM patients were tested for the expression of 88 types of miRNA involved in cancerogenesis. Most of the tested miRNAs were downregulated in the malignant tissues compared with the normal tissues. Of eight significantly downregulated, three miRNAs were assayed in cancerous tissue and adjacent non-cancerous tissue sample pairs collected from 27 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded MPM tissues by quantitative RT-PCR. Among the miRNAs tested, only miR-126 significantly remained downregulated in the malignant tissues. Furthermore, the performance of the selected miR-126 as biomarker was evaluated in serum samples of asbestos-exposed subjects and MPM patients and compared with controls. MiR-126 was not affected by asbestos exposure, whereas it was found strongly associated with VEGF serum levels. Levels of miR-126 in serum, and its levels in patients' serum in association with a specific marker of MPM, SMRPs, correlate with subjects at high risk to develop MPM. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: We propose miR-126, in association with SMRPs, as a marker for early detection of MPM. The identification of tumor biomarkers used alone or, in particular, in combination could greatly facilitate the surveillance procedure for cohorts of subjects exposed to asbestos.

21544802.txt

Circulating micro-RNA expression profiles in early stage nonsmall cell lung cancer. Circulating micro-RNA (miR) profiles have been proposed as promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for cancer, including lung cancer. We have developed methods to accurately and reproducibly measure micro-RNA levels in serum and plasma. Here, we study paired serum and plasma samples from 220 patients with early stage nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and 220 matched controls. We use qRT-PCR to measure the circulating levels of 30 different miRs that have previously been reported to be differently expressed in lung cancer tissue. Duplicate RNA extractions were performed for 10% of all samples, and micro-RNA measurements were highly correlated among those duplicates. This demonstrates high reproducibility of our assay. The expressions of miR-146b, miR-221, let-7a, miR-155, miR-17-5p, miR-27a and miR-106a were significantly reduced in the serum of NSCLC cases, while miR-29c was significantly increased. No significant differences were observed in plasma of patients compared with controls. Overall, expression levels in serum did not correlate well with levels in plasma. In secondary analyses, reduced plasma expression of let-7b was modestly associated with worse cancer-specific mortality in all patients, and reduced serum expression of miR-223 was modestly associated with cancer-specific mortality in stage IA/B patients. MiR profiles also showed considerable differences comparing African American and European Americans. In summary, we found significant differences in miR expression when comparing cases and controls and find evidence that expression of let-7b is associated with prognosis in NSCLC.

21609717.txt

MicroRNA-98 negatively regulates IL-10 production and endotoxin tolerance in macrophages after LPS stimulation. Interleukin 10 (IL-10) is a potent anti-inflammatory cytokine that is crucial for dampening the inflammatory response after pathogen invasion, and was found to be produced by macrophages after exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). It remains unclear whether microRNA-mediated regulatory mechanism is involved in LPS-induced IL-10 production. Here we reported that miR-98 expression in macrophages significantly decreased following LPS stimulation. We also found that miR-98 targets the 3'untranslated region of IL-10 transcript. Overexpression of miR-98 inhibited TLR4-triggered IL-10 production and promoted COX-2 expression. We further demonstrated that miR-98 significantly mitigated the induction of endotoxin tolerance, suggesting that miR-98-mediated posttranscriptional control could potentially be involved in fine tuning the critical level of IL-10 production in endotoxin tolerance.

21647640.txt

Differentially expressed micoRNAs in human oocytes. PURPOSE: To identify differentially expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) and expression patterns of specific miRNAs during meiosis in human oocytes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: To identify differentially expressed miRNAs, GV oocytes and MII oocytes matured at conventional FSH levels (5.5 ng/ml) were analyzed by miRNA microarray. Real-time RT-PCR was used to confirm the changed miRNAs. To validate the dynamic changes of miRNAs from GV to MII stages, oocytes were divided into four groups (#1-4), corresponding to GV oocytes, MI oocytes, MII oocytes matured in conventional FSH level and MII oocytes matured in high FSH level (2,000 ng/ml) respectively. RESULTS: Compared with GV oocytes, MII oocytes exhibited up-regulation of 4 miRNAs (hsa-miR-193a-5p, hsa-miR-297, hsa-miR-625 and hsa-miR-602), and down-regulation of 11 miRNAs (hsa-miR-888*, hsa-miR-212, hsa-miR-662, hsa-miR-299-5p, hsa-miR-339-5p, hsa-miR-20a, hsa-miR-486-5p, hsa-miR-141*, hsa-miR-768-5p, hsa-miR-376a and hsa-miR-15a). RT-PCR analysis of hsa-miR-15a and hsa-miR-20a expression revealed concordant dynamic changes in oocytes from group 1 to group 4. CONCLUSION(S): Specific miRNAs in human oocytes had dynamic changes during meiosis. High-concentration FSH in IVM medium led to reverse effect on the expression of hsa-miR-15a and hsa-miR-20a.

21666774.txt

MicroRNA control of ovarian function. Post-transcriptional gene regulation, a regulatory mechanism classically involved in female and male germ cell function has recently been implicated in control of somatic cells of the ovary and testis. Recent advancements in this field may be attributed primarily to the discovery and study of microRNAs (miRNA), small RNA transcripts that can influence mRNA expression via post-transcriptional gene regulatory mechanisms. In the ovary, targeted deletion of Dicer 1, a key enzyme in miRNA biogenesis, provided the first empirical evidence that miRNA/siRNA were critically involved in multiple aspects of ovarian function (folliculogenesis, oocyte maturation, ovulation, and luteal function). Functional studies of miRNA in the ovary have mostly focused on granulosa cells during the critical period of the ovarian cycle surrounding the ovulatory surge of luteinizing hormone (LH). Specific miRNA have been implicated in ovarian responses, due to their transcriptional induction by the LH surge (i.e., miR-21, -132 and -212) or through bioinformatic approaches (miR-224, -17-5p and let-7b). Numerous other miRNA are highly abundant in ovarian somatic tissues, suggesting that we have much to discover with respect to the role of miRNA and regulation of ovarian function. This review will recap the key observations of these early studies and provide insight into future experiments that might further our understanding of ovarian function.

21685392.txt

The miR-143/145 cluster is a novel transcriptional target of Jagged-1/Notch signaling in vascular smooth muscle cells. Activation of Notch signaling by Jagged-1 (Jag-1) in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) promotes a differentiated phenotype characterized by increased expression of contractile proteins. Recent studies show that microRNAs (miR)-143/145 regulates VSMC phenotype. The serum response factor (SRF)/myocardin complex binds to CArG sequences to activate miR-143/145 transcription, but no other regulators are known in VSMC. Using miR arrays, we found miR-143/145 induced following expression of a constitutively active Notch1 intracellular domain (N1ICD). We hypothesized that miR-143/145 is required for Jag-1/Notch-induced VSMC differentiation. Activation of Notch receptors by Jag-1 caused CBF1-dependent up-regulation of miR-143/145, increased differentiation, and decreased proliferation. Conversely, inhibiting basal Notch signaling decreased steady state levels of miR-143/145. Using SRF knockdown, we found that Jag-1/Notch induction of miR-143/145 is SRF independent, although full acquisition of contractile markers requires SRF. Using miR-143/145 promoter reporter constructs we show Jag-1/Notch increases promoter activity, and this is dependent on intact CBF1 consensus sites within the promoter. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays revealed that N1ICD-containing complexes bind to CBF1 sites in the miR-143/145 promoter. We also identified N1ICD complex binding to CBF1 sites within the endogenous human miR-143/145 promoter. Using miR-143/145-interfering oligonucleotides, we demonstrate that Jag-1/Notch signaling requires induction of both miR-143 and miR-145 to promote the VSMC contractile phenotype. Thus, miR-143/145 is a novel transcriptional target of Jag-1/Notch signaling in VSMC. We propose miR-143/145 as activated independently by Jag-1/Notch and SRF in parallel pathways. Multiple pathways converging on miR-143/145 provides potential for fine-tuning or amplification of VSMC differentiation signals.

21693621.txt

microRNAs modulate iPS cell generation. Although induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold great promise for customized regenerative medicine, the molecular basis of reprogramming is largely unknown. Overcoming barriers that maintain cell identities is a critical step in the reprogramming of differentiated cells. Since microRNAs (miRNAs) modulate target genes tissue-specifically, we reasoned that distinct mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF)-enriched miRNAs post-transcriptionally modulate proteins that function as reprogramming barriers. Inhibiting these miRNAs should influence cell signaling to lower those barriers. Here we show that depleting miR-21 and miR-29a enhances reprogramming efficiency in MEFs. We also show that the p53 and ERK1/2 pathways are regulated by miR-21 and miR-29a and function in reprogramming. In addition, we provide the first evidence that c-Myc enhances reprogramming partly by repressing MEF-enriched miRNAs, such as miR-21 and miR-29a. Our results demonstrate the significance of miRNA function in regulating multiple signaling networks involved in iPSC generation. These studies should facilitate development of clinically applicable reprogramming strategies.

21703983.txt

Diagnostic microRNAs in myelodysplastic syndrome. OBJECTIVE: The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are aging-associated disorders characterized by ineffective maturation of hematopoietic elements, which are often diagnostically challenging. This study identifies microRNAs (miRNA) and miRNA targets that might represent diagnostic markers for MDS. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study utilized a total of 42 MDS samples and 45 controls. A discovery set of 20 frozen bone marrow mononuclear cell samples (10 MDS, 10 controls) was profiled on a custom Agilent miRNA microarray. Classifier miRNAs were validated in a separate set of 49 paraffin-embedded particle preparations by real-time polymerase chain reaction (24 MDS, 25 controls). Target prediction analysis was compared to a de novo transcriptional profile of MDS derived from the Microarray Innovations in Leukemia study. c-Myb and Sufu were further investigated by immunohistochemical stains on a set of 26 paraffin-embedded samples. RESULTS: We identified 13 miRNAs of interest from the discovery set, 8 of which proved statistically significant on real-time polymerase chain reaction verification. These eight miRNAs were then examined in an independent real-time polymerase chain reaction validation set. Notably, hsa-miR-378, hsa-miR-632, and hsa-miR-636 demonstrated particularly high discrimination between MDS and normal controls. Target prediction identified potential targets of miRNA regulation that correspond to many of the genes that characterize MDS. Immunohistochemical staining performed on a third validation set confirmed that c-Myb and Sufu are differentially expressed in MDS. CONCLUSIONS: Our data utilize both discovery and validation sets and two complementary platforms to identify miRNAs associated with MDS. We have analyzed predicted targets and identified c-Myb and Sufu as potential diagnostic markers of MDS.

21898400.txt

miR-520c and miR-373 upregulate MMP9 expression by targeting mTOR and SIRT1, and activate the Ras/Raf/MEK/Erk signaling pathway and NF-kappaB factor in human fibrosarcoma cells. MicroRNA 520c and 373 (miR-520c and miR-373) have been characterized as oncogenes and play critical roles in cancer cell metastasis. However, the relationship between these two microRNAs and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), which are important in cancer cell metastasis, remains unknown. Here, we report new evidence in which miR-520c and miR-373 effects in human fibrosarcoma HT1080 cells are associated with MMP9 activity, and this upregulation of MMP9 is not only at the activity and protein levels, but also at that of its mRNA. Our experimental data demonstrate that these effects occur not by direct binding to the MMP9 promoter, but by miR-520c and miR-373 directly targeting the 3'-untranslational region (UTR) of mRNAs of mTOR and SIRT1 (negative regulators of expression of MMP9 via inactivating the Ras/Raf/MEK/Erk signaling pathway and transcription factor NF-kappaB activity); and thus suppressing translation levels of SIRT1 and mTOR. Moreover, inhibition of key kinases of the Ras/Raf/MEK/Erk signaling pathway and Western blots for selected proteins further identified miR-520c and miR-373 as activating this signaling pathway and NF-kappaB. In conclusion, miR-520c and miR-373 increased the expression of MMP9 by directly targeting the 3'-UTRs of mRNAs of mTOR and SIRT1 and suppressing their translation; resulting in activation of the Ras/Raf/MEK/Erk signaling pathway and NF-kappaB; and, finally, increasing the mRNA, protein, and activity of MMP9 and enhancing cell migration and cell growth in 3D type I collagen gels.

21909417.txt

Haemolysis during sample preparation alters microRNA content of plasma. The presence of cell-free microRNAs (miRNAs) has been detected in a range of body fluids. The miRNA content of plasma/serum in particular has been proposed as a potential source of novel biomarkers for a number of diseases. Nevertheless, the quantification of miRNAs from plasma or serum is made difficult due to inefficient isolation and lack of consensus regarding the optimal reference miRNA. The effect of haemolysis on the quantification and normalisation of miRNAs in plasma has not been investigated in great detail. We found that levels of miR-16, a commonly used reference gene, showed little variation when measured in plasma samples from healthy volunteers or patients with malignant mesothelioma or coronary artery disease. Including samples with evidence of haemolysis led to variation in miR-16 levels and consequently decreased its ability to serve as a reference. The levels of miR-16 and miR-451, both present in significant levels in red blood cells, were proportional to the degree of haemolysis. Measurements of the level of these miRNAs in whole blood, plasma, red blood cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed that the miRNA content of red blood cells represents the major source of variation in miR-16 and miR-451 levels measured in plasma. Adding lysed red blood cells to non-haemolysed plasma allowed a cut-off level of free haemoglobin to be determined, below which miR-16 and miR-451 levels displayed little variation between individuals. In conclusion, increases in plasma miR-16 and miR-451 are caused by haemolysis. In the absence of haemolysis the levels of both miR-16 and miR-451 are sufficiently constant to serve as normalisers.

21931624.txt

Integrated analysis of miRNA and mRNA expression in childhood medulloblastoma compared with neural stem cells. Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant brain tumor in children and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality and morbidity. Several molecular sub-types of MB have been identified, suggesting they may arise from distinct cells of origin. Data from animal models indicate that some MB sub-types arise from multipotent cerebellar neural stem cells (NSCs). Hence, microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles of primary MB samples were compared to CD133+ NSCs, aiming to identify deregulated miRNAs involved in MB pathogenesis. Expression profiling of 662 miRNAs in primary MB specimens, MB cell lines, and human CD133+ NSCs and CD133- neural progenitor cells was performed by qRT-PCR. Clustering analysis identified two distinct sub-types of MB primary specimens, reminiscent of sub-types obtained from their mRNA profiles. 21 significantly up-regulated and 12 significantly down-regulated miRNAs were identified in MB primary specimens relative to CD133+ NSCs (p<0.01). The majority of up-regulated miRNAs mapped to chromosomal regions 14q32 and 17q. Integration of the predicted targets of deregulated miRNAs with mRNA expression data from the same specimens revealed enrichment of pathways regulating neuronal migration, nervous system development and cell proliferation. Transient over-expression of a down-regulated miRNA, miR-935, resulted in significant down-regulation of three of the seven predicted miR-935 target genes at the mRNA level in a MB cell line, confirming the validity of this approach. This study represents the first integrated analysis of MB miRNA and mRNA expression profiles and is the first to compare MB miRNA expression profiles to those of CD133+ NSCs. We identified several differentially expressed miRNAs that potentially target networks of genes and signaling pathways that may be involved in the transformation of normal NSCs to brain tumor stem cells. Based on this integrative approach, our data provide an important platform for future investigations aimed at characterizing the role of specific miRNAs in MB pathogenesis.

21987613.txt

Potentially predictive microRNAs of gastric cancer with metastasis to lymph node. AIM: To detect the expression of 60 microRNAs (miRNAs) in gastric cancer tissues and find new predictive biomarkers of gastric cancer with metastasis. METHODS: The expressions of 60 candidate miRNAs in 30 gastric cancer tissues and paired normal tissues were detected by stem-loop real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. After primary screening of miRNAs expression, 5 selected miRNAs were further testified in another 22 paired gastric tissues. Based on the expression level of miRNAs and the status of metastasis to lymph node (LN), receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curve were used to evaluate their ability in predicting the status of metastasis to LN. RESULTS: Thirty-eight miRNAs expressions in gastric cancer tissues were significantly different from those in paired normal tissues (P < 0.01). Among them, 31 miRNAs were found to be up-expressed in cancer tissues and 1 miRNAs were down-expressed >/= 1.5 fold vs paired normal gastric tissue. Five microRNAs (miR-125a-3p, miR-133b, miR-143, miR-195 and miR-212) were differently expressed between different metastatic groups in 30 gastric cancer biopsies (P < 0.05). Partial correlation analysis showed that hsa-mir-212 and hsa-mir-195 were correlated with the status of metastasis to LN in spite of age, gender, tumor location, tumor size, depth of invasion and cell differentiation. ROC analysis indicated that miR-212 and miR-195 have better sensitivities (84.6% and 69.2%, respectively) and specificities (both 100%) in distinguishing biopsies with metastasis to LN from biopsies without metastasis to LN. CONCLUSION: miR-212 and miR-195 could be independent biomarkers in predicting the gastric cancer with metastasis to LN.

22066022.txt

Serum microRNA-21 as marker for necroinflammation in hepatitis C patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma. BACKGROUND: MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) is up-regulated in tumor tissue of patients with malignant diseases, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Elevated concentrations of miR-21 have also been found in sera or plasma from patients with malignancies, rendering it an interesting candidate as serum/plasma marker for malignancies. Here we correlated serum miR-21 levels with clinical parameters in patients with different stages of chronic hepatitis C virus infection (CHC) and CHC-associated HCC. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: 62 CHC patients, 29 patients with CHC and HCC and 19 healthy controls were prospectively enrolled. RNA was extracted from the sera and miR-21 as well as miR-16 levels were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR; miR-21 levels (normalized by miR-16) were correlated with standard liver parameters, histological grading and staging of CHC. The data show that serum levels of miR-21 were elevated in patients with CHC compared to healthy controls (P<0.001); there was no difference between serum miR-21 in patients with CHC and CHC-associated HCC. Serum miR-21 levels correlated with histological activity index (HAI) in the liver (r = -0.494, P = 0.00002), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (r = -0.309, P = 0.007), aspartate aminotransferase (r = -0.495, P = 0.000007), bilirubin (r = -0.362, P = 0.002), international normalized ratio (r = -0.338, P = 0.034) and gamma-glutamyltransferase (r = -0.244, P = 0.034). Multivariate analysis revealed that ALT and miR-21 serum levels were independently associated with HAI. At a cut-off dC(T) of 1.96, miR-21 discriminated between minimal and mild-severe necroinflammation (AUC = 0.758) with a sensitivity of 53.3% and a specificity of 95.2%. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The serum miR-21 level is a marker for necroinflammatory activity, but does not differ between patients with HCV and HCV-induced HCC.

22110251.txt

Nodal marginal zone lymphoma: gene expression and miRNA profiling identify diagnostic markers and potential therapeutic targets. Nodal marginal zone lymphoma (NMZL) is a small B-cell neoplasm whose molecular pathogenesis is still essentially unknown and whose differentiation from other small B-cell lymphomas is hampered by the lack of specific markers. We have analyzed gene expression, miRNA profile, and copy number data from 15 NMZL cases. For comparison, 16 follicular lymphomas (FLs), 9 extranodal marginal zone lymphomas, and 8 reactive lymph nodes and B-cell subtypes were included. The results were validated by quantitative RT-PCR in an independent series, including 61 paraffin-embedded NMZLs. NMZL signature showed an enriched expression of gene sets identifying interleukins, integrins, CD40, PI3K, NF-kappaB, and TGF-beta, and included genes expressed by normal marginal zone cells and memory B cells. The most highly overexpressed genes were SYK, TACI, CD74, CD82, and CDC42EP5. Genes linked to G(2)/M and germinal center were down-regulated. Comparison of the gene expression profiles of NMZL and FL showed enriched expression of CHIT1, TGFB1, and TACI in NMZL, and BCL6, LMO2, and CD10 in FL. NMZL displayed increased expression of miR-221, miR-223, and let-7f, whereas FL strongly expressed miR-494. Our study identifies new candidate diagnostic molecules for NMZL and reveals survival pathways activated in NMZL.

22123611.txt

MicroRNA-195 promotes apoptosis in mouse podocytes via enhanced caspase activity driven by BCL2 insufficiency. BACKGROUND: The apoptosis of podocytes is a characteristic event in diabetic nephropathy. The aim of this study was to investigate whether microRNAs (miRNAs) affect podocyte apoptosis in diabetic circumstances. METHODS: Diabetic nephropathy was induced in DBA/2 mice by intraperitoneal injections of streptozotocin, and the levels of proteinuria were measured with ELISA. Apoptosis-related miRNAs were screened in isolated glomeruli. A conditionally immortalized mouse podocyte cell line was cultured in 25 mMD-glucose and either transfected with miRNA-195 (miR-195) mimics or inhibitors. The levels of BCL2 and caspase expression were determined using real-time RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. We also measured WT-1 and synaptopodin in podocytes. Apoptosis of podocytes was assessed with Hoechst 33258 nuclear staining, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), and flow cytometry. RESULTS: The expression of miR-195 was elevated in both diabetic mice with proteinuria and podocytes that were cultured in high glucose. Transfection with miR-195 reduced the protein levels of BCL2 and contributed to podocyte apoptosis via an increase in caspase-3. miR-195-treated podocytes underwent actin rearrangement and failed to synthesize sufficient levels of WT-1 and synaptopodin proteins, which suggests that the cells had suffered injuries similar to those observed in diabetic nephropathy in both humans and animal models. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings demonstrate that miR-195 promotes apoptosis of podocytes under high-glucose conditions via enhanced caspase cascades for BCL2 insufficiency. This work thus presents a meaningful approach for deciphering mechanisms, by which miRNAs participate in diabetic renal injury.

22139444.txt

microRNA-30c negatively regulates endometrial cancer cells by targeting metastasis-associated gene-1. It is well known that microRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in cancer development by targeting oncogenes or tumor-suppressor genes. However, little is known regarding the mechanisms of miR-30c action in endometrial cancer. In this study, we aimed to determine whether miR-30c targets metastasis-associated gene-1 (MTA1) and acts as a tumor suppressor in endometrial cancer cell lines Ishikawa (estrogen receptor-positive, ER+) and HEC-1-B (ER-) by down-regulating MTA1. As a result, in both Ishikawa and HEC-1-B cells, real-time PCR demonstrated that overexpression of miR-30c led to the down-regulation of MTA1 mRNA (P<0.05), while Western blotting confirmed the reduced expression levels of MTA1 protein (P<0.01). A dual-luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that miR-30c was directly bound to the 3'-untranslated regions of MTA1. Then we studied the biological mechanisms of endometrial cancer cells transfected with the Pre-miR-30c plasmid. MTT assay and growth curves revealed that miR-30c inhibits both Ishikawa and HEC-1-B cell proliferation. However, we did not see obvious differences in rates of apoptosis between miR-30c-overexpressing and the negative control cells. Then using wound-healing and Matrigel invasion assays, we found that the migratory and invasive abilities of cells transfected with the Pre-miR-30c plasmid were significantly suppressed compared with the control cells (P<0.01). Overall, our study, for the first time, showed that MTA1 is negatively regulated by miR-30c and that overexpression of miR-30c inhibits the proliferative, migratory and invasive abilities of endometrial cancer cells. These results suggest that miR-30c acts as a tumor suppressor and negatively regulates endometrial cancer cells by targeting MTA1.

22168593.txt

Microribonucleic acids and gastric cancer. Gastric carcinogenesis is a multistep process involving genetic and epigenetic alteration of protein-coding proto-oncogenes and tumor-suppressor genes. Microribonucleic acids (miR) are a recently-described class of genes encoding small non-coding RNA molecules, which primarily act by downregulating the translation of target mRNA. It has become apparent that miR are also key factors in cancer, playing both oncogenic and tumor-suppressing roles in gastric cancer. Recent studies have shown that a substantial number of miR show differential expression in gastric cancer tissues, and they are turning out to be just like any other regulatory gene. In this connection, miR dysregulation are reported to be associated with incidence, early diagnosis and prognosis of gastric cancer. Therefore, investigation of the biological aspects of miR dysregulation might help us better understand the pathogenesis of gastric cancer and promote the development of miR-directed therapeutics against this deadly disease. The aim of the present review was to describe the mechanisms of several known miR, summarize recent studies on oncogenic miR (e.g. miR-21, miR-106a and miR-17), tumor suppressor miR (e.g. miR-101, miR-181, miR-449, miR-486, let-7a) and controversial roles of miR (e.g. miR-107, miR-126) for gastric cancer. In addition, their potential clinical applications and prospects in gastric cancer, such as biomarkers and clinical therapy tools, are also briefly discussed.

22249219.txt

Adenosine A2A receptor upregulation in human PMNs is controlled by miRNA-214, miRNA-15, and miRNA-16. Immunosuppressive signaling via the adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) is an important pathway to control inflammation. In immune cells, expression levels of A2ARs influence responsiveness to inflammatory stimuli. However, mechanisms driving expressional changes of A2ARs are still largely elusive. In the current study, we have investigated the impact of microRNAs (miRNAs) on A2AR expression in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) and T cells. Bioinformatic analyses and reporter gene assays revealed that A2AR expression is controlled by miRNA-214, miRNA-15, and miRNA-16. We detected all three miRNAs in both human PMNs and T cells. However, in PMNs, up to 10-fold higher levels of miRNA-16 and miRNA-214 were detected as compared with T cells. Upon in vitro stimulation, no significant expressional changes occurred. Expression levels of all three miRNAs strongly differed between individuals. A2AR expression also exhibited significant differences between PMNs and T cells: In PMNs, more than a 60-fold increase was seen upon LPS stimulation, whereas in T cells only a 2-fold increase was observed upon anti-CD3/CD28 activation. The extent of A2AR upregulation in PMNs strongly differed between individuals (from less than 10-fold to more than 100-fold). In PMNs, the increase in A2AR mRNA expression upon stimulation was inversely correlated with the expression levels of miRNA-214, miRNA-15, and miRNA-16 (R = -0.87, P < 0.0001); no correlation was found in human T cells. These results indicate that individual miRNA profiles gain important influence on A2AR expression regulation in PMNs upon stimulation. Determination of miRNA expression levels may help to identify patients with an increased risk for severe inflammation.

22268758.txt

Probing the polygenic basis of cardiomyopathies in Drosophila. In trying to understand the causes for congenital heart disease and cardiomyopathies, it is difficult to study polygenic interactions that contribute to the severity of the disease, which is in part due to genetic complexity and generation time of higher organisms that hinder efficient screening for modifiers of primary causes of heart disease. The adult Drosophila heart has recently been established as a model to probe genetic interactions that lead to cardiac dysfunction in this genetically simple and short-lived organism. This has made it possible to systematically and efficiently screen for polygenic modulators of heart dysfunction inflicted by known heart disease genes. As heart development and fundamental aspects of cardiac physiology show remarkable evolutionary conservation, it has become possible to uncover new heart disease candidates by using Drosophila genetic tools in combination with sensitive heart function assays. Here, we review the discovery of several new genes, genetic pathways, and interactions that will help understand human heart disease. For example, interactions between cardiogenic transcription factors, discovered in Drosophila, are also critical for adult heart function in flies and mammals. These include interactions between tinman/Nkx2-5 and neuromancer/Tbx20, which led to the discovery of possibly disease-causing familial variants in human TBX20. A new genetic pathway from tinman/Nkx2-5 to Cdc42, involving the microRNA miR-1, was recently discovered in flies and subsequently validated to function similarly in mouse heart. Thus, the fly heart has proven to be a useful discovery tool for screening genetic interactions that are otherwise difficult to conduct.

22269326.txt

Inhibition of microRNA-29b reduces murine abdominal aortic aneurysm development. MicroRNAs (miRs) regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level and play crucial roles in vascular integrity. As such, they may have a role in modifying abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) expansion, the pathophysiological mechanisms of which remain incompletely explored. Here, we investigate the role of miRs in 2 murine models of experimental AAA: the porcine pancreatic elastase (PPE) infusion model in C57BL/6 mice and the AngII infusion model in Apoe-/- mice. AAA development was accompanied by decreased aortic expression of miR-29b, along with increased expression of known miR-29b targets, Col1a1, Col3a1, Col5a1, and Eln, in both models. In vivo administration of locked nucleic acid anti-miR-29b greatly increased collagen expression, leading to an early fibrotic response in the abdominal aortic wall and resulting in a significant reduction in AAA progression over time in both models. In contrast, overexpression of miR-29b using a lentiviral vector led to augmented AAA expansion and significant increase of aortic rupture rate. Cell culture studies identified aortic fibroblasts as the likely vascular cell type mediating the profibrotic effects of miR-29b modulation. A similar pattern of reduced miR-29b expression and increased target gene expression was observed in human AAA tissue samples compared with that in organ donor controls. These data suggest that therapeutic manipulation of miR-29b and its target genes holds promise for limiting AAA disease progression and protecting from rupture.

22286762.txt

Sulindac inhibits tumor cell invasion by suppressing NF-kappaB-mediated transcription of microRNAs. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been widely reported to display strong efficacy for cancer chemoprevention, although their mechanism of action is poorly understood. The most well-documented effects of NSAIDs include inhibition of tumor cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis, but their effect on tumor cell invasion has not been well studied. Here, we show that the NSAID, sulindac sulfide (SS) can potently inhibit the invasion of human MDA-MB-231 breast and HCT116 colon tumor cells in vitro at concentrations less than those required to inhibit tumor cell growth. To study the molecular basis for this activity, we investigated the involvement of microRNA (miRNA). A total of 132 miRNAs were found to be altered in response to SS treatment, including miR-10b, miR-17, miR-21 and miR-9, which have been previously implicated in tumor invasion and metastasis. We confirmed that these miRNA can stimulate tumor cell invasion and show that SS can attenuate their invasive effects by downregulating their expression. Employing luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, NF-kappaB was found to bind the promoters of all four miRNAs to suppress their expression at the transcriptional level. We show that SS can inhibit the translocation of NF-kappaB to the nucleus by decreasing the phosphorylation of IKKbeta and IkappaB. Analysis of the promoter sequences of the miRNAs suppressed by SS revealed that 81 of 115 sequences contained NF-kappaB-binding sites. These results show that SS can inhibit tumor cell invasion by suppressing NF-kappaB-mediated transcription of miRNAs.

22347777.txt

Computational identification of miRNAs in medicinal plant Senecio vulgaris (Groundsel). RNAs Interference plays a very important role in gene silencing. In vitro identification of miRNAs is a slow process as it is difficult to isolate them. Nucleotide sequences of miRNAs are highly conserved among the plants and, this form the key feature behind the identification of miRNAs in plant species by homology alignment. In silico identification of miRNAs from EST database is emerging as a novel, faster and reliable approach. Here EST sequences of Senecio vulgaris (Groundsel) were searched against known miRNA sequences by using BLASTN tool. A total of 10 miRNAs were identified from 1956 EST sequences and 115 GSS sequences. The most stable miRNA identified is svu-mir-1. This approach will accelerate advance research in regulation of gene expression in Groundsel by interfering RNAs.

22569260.txt

MicroRNA-223 regulates FOXO1 expression and cell proliferation. In HCT116 colorectal cancer cells, HeLa cervical cancer cells and HuH-7 hepatoma cells, miR-223 is expressed at a low level. Through infection with lentivirus containing miR-223 precursor, miR-223 [corrected] was overexpressed in all these cells. Interestingly, the expression levels of FOXO1 mRNA and protein, and phosphorylation levels became significantly lower than those of their control. FOXO1 was down-regulated mainly in the cytoplasm, while the nuclear FOXO1 level became relatively high compared to the cytoplasm. As the unphosphorylated active form of FOXO1 increased in the cells, cyclin D1/p21/p27 were up-regulated at either mRNA or protein level. Proliferation of the cells was also greatly inhibited when miR-223 was over-expressed. Therein, our data suggest that miR-223 regulates FOXO1 expression and cell proliferation.

22623953.txt

Global microRNA expression profiling of high-risk ER+ breast cancers from patients receiving adjuvant tamoxifen mono-therapy: a DBCG study. PURPOSE: Despite the benefits of estrogen receptor (ER)-targeted endocrine therapies in breast cancer, many tumors develop resistance. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been suggested as promising biomarkers and we here evaluated whether a miRNA profile could be identified, sub-grouping ER+ breast cancer patients treated with adjuvant Tamoxifen with regards to probability of recurrence. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Global miRNA analysis was performed on 152 ER+ primary tumors from high-risk breast cancer patients with an initial discovery set of 52 patients, followed by two independent test sets (N = 60 and N = 40). All patients had received adjuvant Tamoxifen as mono-therapy (median clinical follow-up: 4.6 years) and half had developed distant recurrence (median time-to-recurrence: 3.5 years). MiRNA expression was examined by unsupervised hierarchical clustering and supervised analysis, including clinical parameters as co-variables. RESULTS: The discovery set identified 10 highly significant miRNAs that discriminated between the patient samples according to outcome. However, the subsequent two independent test sets did not confirm the predictive potential of these miRNAs. A significant correlation was identified between miR-7 and the tumor grade. Investigation of the microRNAs with the most variable expression between patients in different runs yielded a list of 31 microRNAs, eight of which are associated with stem cell characteristics. CONCLUSIONS: Based on the large sample size, our data strongly suggests that there is no single miRNA profile predictive of outcome following adjuvant Tamoxifen treatment in a broad cohort of ER+ breast cancer patients. We identified a sub-group of Tamoxifen-treated breast cancer patients with miRNA-expressing tumors associated with cancer stem cell characteristics.

22634495.txt

MicroRNA-10a targets CHL1 and promotes cell growth, migration and invasion in human cervical cancer cells. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in cancer initiation, progression and metastasis by regulating their target genes. Here, we found microRNA-10a (miR-10a) is upregulated in human cervical cancer and promotes the colony formation activity, migration and invasion of HeLa and C33A cells. Subsequently, CHL1 is confirmed as a target of miR-10a and is negatively regulated by miR-10a at mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, knockdown of CHL1 expression results in increased colony formation activity, migration and invasion. Finally, overexpression of CHL1 lacked the 3'UTR abolished the effects of miR-10a. Our results may provide a strategy for blocking tumor metastasis.

22698995.txt

The let-7 microRNA enhances heme oxygenase-1 by suppressing Bach1 and attenuates oxidant injury in human hepatocytes. The let-7 microRNA (miRNA) plays important roles in human liver development and diseases such as hepatocellular carcinoma, liver fibrosis and hepatitis wherein oxidative stress accelerates the progression of these diseases. To date, the role of the let-7 miRNA family in modulation of heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1), a key cytoprotective enzyme, remains unknown. Our aims were to determine whether let-7 miRNA directly regulates Bach1, a transcriptional repressor of the HMOX1 gene, and whether indirect up-regulation of HMOX1 by let-7 miRNA attenuates oxidant injury in human hepatocytes. The effects of let-7 miRNA on Bach1 and HMOX1 gene expression in Huh-7 and HepG2 cells were determined by real-time qRT-PCR, Western blot, and luciferase reporter assays. Dual luciferase reporter assays revealed that let-7b, let-7c, or miR-98 significantly decreased Bach1 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR)-dependent luciferase activity but not mutant Bach1 3'-UTR-dependent luciferase activity, whereas mutant let-7 miRNA containing base complementarity with mutant Bach1 3'-UTR restored its effect on mutant reporter activity. let-7b, let-7c, or miR-98 down-regulated Bach1 protein levels by 50-70%, and subsequently up-regulated HMOX1 gene expression by 3-4 fold, compared with non-specific controls. Furthermore, Huh-7 cells transfected with let-7b, let-7c or miR-98 mimic showed increased resistance against oxidant injury induced by tert-butyl-hydroperoxide (tBuOOH), whereas the protection was abrogated by over-expression of Bach1. In conclusion, let-7 miRNA directly acts on the 3'-UTR of Bach1 and negatively regulates expression of this protein, and thereby up-regulates HMOX1 gene expression. Over-expression of the let-7 miRNA family members may represent a novel approach to protecting human hepatocytes from oxidant injury.

22723919.txt

MicroRNA-9 as potential biomarker for breast cancer local recurrence and tumor estrogen receptor status. MicroRNAs (miRs) are small, non-protein coding transcripts involved in many cellular functions. Many miRs have emerged as important cancer biomarkers. In the present study, we investigated whether miR levels in breast tumors are predictive of breast cancer local recurrence (LR). Sixty-eight women who were diagnosed with breast cancer at the Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center were included in this study. Breast cancer patients with LR and those without LR were matched on year of surgery, age at diagnosis, and type of surgery. Candidate miRs were identified by screening the expression levels of 754 human miRs using miR arrays in 16 breast tumor samples from 8 cases with LR and 8 cases without LR. Eight candidate miRs that showed significant differences between tumors with and without LR were further verified in 52 tumor samples using real-time PCR. Higher expression of miR-9 was significantly associated with breast cancer LR in all cases as well as the subset of estrogen receptor (ER) positive cases (p = 0.02). The AUCs (Area Under Curve) of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves of miR-9 for all tumors and ER positive tumors are 0.68 (p = 0.02) and 0.69 (p = 0.02), respectively. In ER positive cases, Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that patients with lower miR-9 levels had significantly better 10-year LR-free survival (67.9% vs 30.8%, p = 0.02). Expression levels of miR-9 and another miR candidate, miR-375, were also strongly associated with ER status (p<0.001 for both). The potential of miR-9 as a biomarker for LR warrants further investigation with larger sample size.

22761336.txt

MiR-96 downregulates REV1 and RAD51 to promote cellular sensitivity to cisplatin and PARP inhibition. Cell survival after DNA damage relies on DNA repair, the abrogation of which causes genomic instability. The DNA repair protein RAD51 and the trans-lesion synthesis DNA polymerase REV1 are required for resistance to DNA interstrand cross-linking agents such as cisplatin. In this study, we show that overexpression of miR-96 in human cancer cells reduces the levels of RAD51 and REV1 and impacts the cellular response to agents that cause DNA damage. MiR-96 directly targeted the coding region of RAD51 and the 3'-untranslated region of REV1. Overexpression of miR-96 decreased the efficiency of homologous recombination and enhanced sensitivity to the PARP inhibitor AZD2281 in vitro and to cisplatin both in vitro and in vivo. Taken together, our findings indicate that miR-96 regulates DNA repair and chemosensitivity by repressing RAD51 and REV1. As a therapeutic candidate, miR-96 may improve chemotherapeutic efficacy by increasing the sensitivity of cancer cells to DNA damage.

22842726.txt

microrna expression signature of gastric cancer cells relative to normal gastric mucosa. micrornas (miRNAs) play an important role in a wide range of physiological and developmental processes by negatively regulating the expression of target genes at the post-transcriptional level. In this study, we investigated the differential miRNA expression signature between gastric cancer cells and normal gastric mucosa to determine changes in miRNA expression during gastric cancer development. We analyzed the global miRNA expression profiles of 9 gastric cancer cell lines and 6 normal gastric mucosa lines using miRNA microarrays. In addition, we performed quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR) to validate the results. Correlations between the miRNA expression profile and tumor clinicopathological parameters were analyzed. We found that 17 miRNAs were upregulated in gastric cancer cell lines and 146 miRNAs were downregulated compared to normal gastric mucosa. Using microarray data and Q-PCR validation, 15 miRNAs were finally selected. These candidate miRNAs were associated with gastric cancer clinicopathology to various degrees. High expression levels of hsa-miR-93 were found to predict poor survival (median, 16 vs. 40 months; log-rank test p<0.05). These findings suggest that miRNAs play vital roles in human gastric cancer. The findings may also provide clues toward understanding the molecular functions of miRNAs in various biological processes.

22847613.txt

Mutant p53 gain-of-function induces epithelial-mesenchymal transition through modulation of the miR-130b-ZEB1 axis. The tumor suppressor gene p53 has been implicated in the regulation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and tumor metastasis by regulating microRNA (miRNA) expression. Here, we report that mutant p53 exerts oncogenic functions and promotes EMT in endometrial cancer (EC) by directly binding to the promoter of miR-130b (a negative regulator of ZEB1) and inhibiting its transcription. We transduced p53 mutants into p53-null EC cells, profiled the miRNA expression by miRNA microarray and identified miR-130b as a potential target of mutant p53. Ectopic expression of p53 mutants repressed the expression of miR-130b and triggered ZEB1-dependent EMT and cancer cell invasion. Loss of an endogenous p53 mutation increased the expression of miR-130b, which resulted in reduced ZEB1 expression and attenuation of the EMT phenotype. Furthermore, re-expression of miR-130b suppressed mutant p53-induced EMT and ZEB1 expression. Importantly, the expression of miR-130 was significantly reduced in EC tissues, and patients with higher expression levels of miR-130b survived longer. These data provide a novel understanding of the roles of p53 gain-of-function mutations in accelerating tumor progression and metastasis through modulation of the miR-130b-ZEB1 axis.

22891274.txt

miR-146a controls the resolution of T cell responses in mice. T cell responses in mammals must be tightly regulated to both provide effective immune protection and avoid inflammation-induced pathology. NF-kappaB activation is a key signaling event induced by T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation. Dysregulation of NF-kappaB is associated with T cell-mediated inflammatory diseases and malignancies, highlighting the importance of negative feedback control of TCR-induced NF-kappaB activity. In this study we show that in mice, T cells lacking miR-146a are hyperactive in both acute antigenic responses and chronic inflammatory autoimmune responses. TCR-driven NF-kappaB activation up-regulates the expression of miR-146a, which in turn down-regulates NF-kappaB activity, at least partly through repressing the NF-kappaB signaling transducers TRAF6 and IRAK1. Thus, our results identify miR-146a as an important new member of the negative feedback loop that controls TCR signaling to NF-kappaB. Our findings also add microRNA to the list of regulators that control the resolution of T cell responses.

22925189.txt

MicroRNA expression in ovarian carcinoma and its correlation with clinicopathological features. BACKGROUND: MicroRNA (miRNA) expression is known to be deregulated in ovarian carcinomas. However, limited data is available about the miRNA expression pattern for the benign or borderline ovarian tumors as well as differential miRNA expression pattern associated with histological types, grades or clinical stages in ovarian carcinomas. We defined patterns of microRNA expression in tissues from normal, benign, borderline, and malignant ovarian tumors and explored the relationship between frequently deregulated miRNAs and clinicopathologic findings, response to therapy, survival, and association with Her-2/neu status in ovarian carcinomas. METHODS: We measured the expression of nine miRNAs (miR-181d, miR-30a-3p, miR-30c, miR-30d, miR-30e-3p, miR-368, miR-370, miR-493-5p, miR-532-5p) in 171 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded ovarian tissue blocks as well as six normal human ovarian surface epithelial (HOSE) cell lines using Taqman-based real-time PCR assays. Her-2/neu overexpression was assessed in ovarian carcinomas (n = 109 cases) by immunohistochemistry analysis. RESULTS: Expression of four miRNAs (miR-30c, miR-30d, miR-30e-3p, miR-370) was significantly different between carcinomas and benign ovarian tissues as well as between carcinoma and borderline tissues. An additional three miRNAs (miR-181d, miR-30a-3p, miR-532-5p) were significantly different between borderline and carcinoma tissues. Expression of miR-532-5p was significantly lower in borderline than in benign tissues. Among ovarian carcinomas, expression of four miRNAs (miR-30a-3p, miR-30c, miR-30d, miR-30e-3p) was lowest in mucinous and highest in clear cell samples. Expression of miR-30a-3p was higher in well-differentiated compared to poorly differentiated tumors (P = 0.02), and expression of miR-370 was higher in stage I/II compared to stage III/IV samples (P = 0.03). In multivariate analyses, higher expression of miR-181d, miR-30c, miR-30d, and miR-30e-3p was associated with significantly better disease-free or overall survival. Finally, lower expression of miR-30c, miR-30d, miR-30e-3p and miR-532-5p was significantly associated with overexpression of Her-2/neu. CONCLUSIONS: Aberrant expression of miRNAs is common in ovarian tumor suggesting involvement of miRNA in ovarian tumorigenesis. They are associated with histology, clinical stage, survival and oncogene expression in ovarian carcinoma.

22945263.txt

Spatiotemporal control of microRNA function using light-activated antagomirs. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that act as post-transcriptional gene regulators and have been shown to regulate many biological processes including embryonal development, cell differentiation, apoptosis, and proliferation. Variations in the expression of certain miRNAs have been linked to a wide range of human diseases - especially cancer - and the diversity of miRNA targets suggests that they are involved in various cellular networks. Several tools have been developed to control the function of individual miRNAs and have been applied to study their biogenesis, biological role, and therapeutic potential; however, common methods lack a precise level of control that allows for the study of miRNA function with high spatial and temporal resolution. Light-activated miRNA antagomirs for mature miR-122 and miR-21 were developed through the site-specific installation of caging groups on the bases of selected nucleotides. Installation of caged nucleotides led to complete inhibition of the antagomir-miRNA hybridization and thus inactivation of antagomir function. The miRNA-inhibitory activity of the caged antagomirs was fully restored upon decaging through a brief UV irradiation. The synthesized antagomirs were applied to the photochemical regulation of miRNA function in mammalian cells. Moreover, spatial control over antagomir activity was obtained in mammalian cells through localized UV exposure. The presented approach enables the precise regulation of miRNA function and miRNA networks with unprecedented spatial and temporal resolution using UV irradiation and can be extended to any miRNA of interest.

22955854.txt

Clinical significance of miR-144-ZFX axis in disseminated tumour cells in bone marrow in gastric cancer cases. BACKGROUND: We previously reported that bone marrow (BM) was a homing site for gastric cancer (GC) cells leading to haematogenous metastases. There has been little study that microRNAs regulated pathways in malignant cells or host cells in BM, and thereby regulated the progression of GC. METHODS: Both microRNA microarray and gene expression microarray analyses of total RNA from BM were conducted, comparing five early and five advanced GC patients. We focused on miR-144-ZFX axis as a candidate BM regulator of GC progression and validated the origin of the microRNA expression in diverse cell fractions (EpCAM(+)CD45(-), EpCAM(-)CD45(+), and CD14(+)) by magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS). RESULTS: Quantitative reverse-transcriptase (RT)-PCR analysis validated diminished miR-144 expression in stage IV GC patients with respect to stage I GC patients (t-test, P=0.02), with an inverse correlation to ZFX (ANOVA, P<0.01). Luciferase reporter assays in five GC cell lines indicated their direct binding and validated by western blotting. Pre-miR144 treatment and the resultant repression of ZFX in GC cell lines moderately upregulated their susceptibility to 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy. In MACS-purified BM fractions, the level of miR-144 expression was significantly diminished in disseminated tumour cell fraction (P=0.0005). Diminished miR-144 expression in 93 cases of primary GC indicated poor prognosis. CONCLUSION: We speculate that disseminated cancer cells could survive in BM when low expression of miR-144 permits upregulation of ZFX. The regulation of the miR-144-ZFX axis in cancer cells has a key role in the indicator of the progression of GC cases.

22956424.txt

MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) expression promotes growth, metastasis, and chemo- or radioresistance in non-small cell lung cancer cells by targeting PTEN. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression by binding to target sites and initiating translational repression and/or mRNA degradation. In our previous study, we have shown that expression of serum microRNA (miR)-21 is correlated with TNM stage and lymph node metastasis and might be an independent prognostic factor for NSCLC patients. However, the roles of miR-21 overexpression in NSCLC development are still unclear. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of miR-21 and determine whether miR-21 can be a therapeutic target for human NSCLC. Taqman real-time quantitative RT-PCR assay was performed to detect miR-21 expression in NSCLC cell lines and tissues. Next, the effects of miR-21 expression on NSCLC cell characteristics including growth, invasion, and chemo- or radioresistance were also determined. Results showed that miR-21 is commonly upregulated in NSCLC cell lines and tissues with important functional consequences. In addition, we found that anti-miR-21 could significantly inhibit growth, migration and invasion, and reverse chemo- or radioresistance of NSCLC cells, while miR-21 mimics could increase growth, promote migration and invasion, and enhance chemo- or radioresistance of NSCLC cells. Meanwhile, miR-21 mimics could inhibit expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and the luciferase activity of a PTEN 3'-untranslated region (UTR)-based reporter construct in A549 cells, while anti-miR-21 could increase expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and the luciferase activity of a PTEN 3'-UTR-based reporter construct in A549 cells. Furthermore, overexpression of PTEN could mimic the same effects of anti-miR-21 in NSCLC cells, and siRNA-mediated downregulation of PTEN could rescue the effects on NSCLC cells induced by anti-miR-21. Taken together, these results provide evidence to show the promotion role of miR-21 in NSCLC development through modulation of the PTEN signaling pathway.

22982443.txt

miR-200c inhibits melanoma progression and drug resistance through down-regulation of BMI-1. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNAs that play crucial roles in tumorigenesis and tumor progression. Melanoma is the most aggressive skin cancer that is resistant or rapidly develops resistance to a variety of chemotherapeutic agents. The role of miRNAs in melanoma progression and drug resistance has not been well studied. Herein, we demonstrate that miR-200c is down-regulated in melanomas (primary and metastatic) compared with melanocytic nevi. Overexpression of miR-200c in melanoma cells resulted in significantly decreased cell proliferation and migratory capacity as well as drug resistance. miR-200c overexpression resulted in significant down-regulation of BMI-1, ABCG2, ABCG5, and MDR1 expression and in a concomitant increase in E-cadherin levels. Knockdown of BMI-1 showed similar effects as miR-200c overexpression in melanoma cells. In addition, miR-200c overexpression significantly inhibited melanoma xenograft growth and metastasis in vivo, and this correlated with diminished expression of BMI-1 and reduced levels of E-cadherin in these tumors. The effects of miR-200c on melanoma cell proliferation and migratory capacity and on self-renewal were rescued by overexpression of Bmi-1, and the reversal of these phenotypes correlated with a reduction in E-cadherin expression and increased levels of ABCG2, ABCG5, and MDR1. Taken together, these findings demonstrate a key role for miR-200c in melanoma progression and drug resistance. These results suggest that miR-200c may represent a critical target for increasing melanoma sensitivity to clinical therapies.

23010597.txt

miR-134 inhibits epithelial to mesenchymal transition by targeting FOXM1 in non-small cell lung cancer cells. Recent studies have implied that miRNAs act as crucial modulators for epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). We found that miR-134 expression correlated with invasive potential and EMT phenotype of NSCLC cells. Functional assays demonstrated that miR-134 inhibited EMT in NSCLC cells. In addition, we showed that Forkhead Box M1 (FOXM1) is a direct target of miR-134. Knockdown of FOXM1 reversed EMT resembling that of miR-134 overexpression. We further found that FOXM1 was involved in TGF-beta1-induced EMT in A549 cells. These findings suggest that miR-134 acts as a novel EMT suppressor in NSCLC cells.

23041385.txt

Age-related differences in the expression of circulating microRNAs: miR-21 as a new circulating marker of inflammaging. Circulating microRNAs (miRs) have been investigated as diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers in human diseases. However, little is known about their expression throughout the aging process. Eleven healthy individuals aged 20, 80 and 100 years underwent miR plasma profiling. The validation cohort consisted of 111 healthy adults (CTR) aged 20-105 years and included 30 centenarians. In addition, 34 patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 15 healthy centenarian offspring (CO) were enrolled. An exploratory factorial analysis grouped the miRs into three main factors: factor 1 primarily higher in 20-year-old subjects, but these differences did not reach statistical significance, factor 2 primarily higher in octogenarians and factor 3 primarily higher in centenarians. MiR-21, the most highly expressed miR of factors 2 and 3, was further validated, confirming the differences in the age groups. MiR-21 expression was higher in the CVD patients and lower in the CO compared to the age-matched CTR. MiR-21 was correlated with C-reactive protein and fibrinogen levels. TGF-beta signaling was the predicted common pathway targeted by miRs of factors 2 and 3. TGF-betaR2 mRNA, a validated miR-21 target, showed the highest expression in the leukocytes from a subset of the octogenarians. Our findings suggest that miR-21 may be a new biomarker of inflammation.

23097316.txt

MIR-34c regulates mouse embryonic stem cells differentiation into male germ-like cells through RARg. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) have the capacity to differentiate into nearly all sorts of cell types, including germ cells, which were regarded as one type of highly specialized cells in mammals, taking the responsibility of transferring genetic materials to the next generation. Studies on induction differentiation of murine embryonic stem cells (mESCs) into male germ cells, but with a low efficiency, basic reason is that the regulation mechanism of germ cell development in mammals is still unclear. miRNA might play an important role in spermatogenesis in mammals. In this study, several miRNAs, which might be related to spermatogenesis, were initially selected and detected in the mouse tissues by semi-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and quantitative real time (qRT)-PCR to find a testis-specific miRNA. To study its effect on mESCs differentiation into male germ cells, miR-34c mimics were synthesized and pri-miR-34c-GFP plasmid was constructed, transfected into mESCs and combined with retinoic acid induction. The effects of miR-34c were analysed by morphology, alkaline phosphatase staining, qRT-PCR_and immunofluorescent staining. The results showed that miR-34c promoted mESCs differentiation into male germ-like cells, to some extent. Then miR-34c targeted genes were predicted by bioinformatics; Retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARg) was selected, and two dual-luciferase reporter vectors contained the normal and mutated 3'untranslated region of RARg were constructed, respectively. By miRNA mimics and vector co-transfection experiment, the predicted target gene-RARg was confirmed. In conclusion, we found a mammalian male germ cell specific miRNA--miR-34c, and it might be pivotal in mESCs differentiation into male germ cells through its target--RARg.

23113351.txt

The microRNA-29 plays a central role in osteosarcoma pathogenesis and progression. Osteosarcoma is the most common type of bone cancer, with a peak incidence in the early childhood. The relationship between microRNAs (miRNAs) and cancer development attracted more and more attention over the last few years. Members of the miRNA-29 family, including miRNA-29a, miRNA-29b, and miRNA-29c were shown to participate in the development of rhabdomyosarcoma and hepatocarcinogenesis. Here, it has been demonstrated miRNA-29a and miRNA-29b expression levels to be downregulated in most of the osteosarcoma tissues (23 from 30). Besides, miRNA-29a displayed ability to induce apoptosis in both U2OS and SAOS-2 osteoblastic cells. While miRNA-29 members induced apoptosis through p53 gene activation, the effect of miRNA-29a on osteoblastic cells was independent on p53 expression level. Moreover, Bcl-2 and Mcl-1 were earlier demonstrated to be the direct targets of miRNA-29 in many types of cancer tissues and cancers. In both U2OS and SAOS-2 osteoblastic cell types, overexpression of miRNA-29a also downregulated Bcl-2 and Mcl-1, while silencing of miRNA-29a increased their expression. In addition, enhanced expression of miRNA-29a increased the expression of two tumor suppressor genes, E2F1 and E2F3. In summary, data obtained highlight the role of miRNA-29a in the regulation of osteoblastic cell apoptosis by silencing Bcl-2 and Mcl-1 and inducing E2F1 and E2F3 expression.

23137528.txt

Serum miR-21 levels in patients with dermatomyositis.

23148210.txt

Hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha induces miR-210 in normoxic differentiating myoblasts. MicroRNA-210 (miR-210) induction is a virtually constant feature of the hypoxic response in both normal and transformed cells, regulating several key aspects of cardiovascular diseases and cancer. We found that miR-210 was induced in normoxic myoblasts upon myogenic differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. miR-210 transcription was activated in an hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (Hif1a)-dependent manner, and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments show that Hif1a bound to the miR-210 promoter only in differentiated myotubes. Accordingly, luciferase reporter assays demonstrated the functional relevance of the Hif1a binding site for miR-210 promoter activation in differentiating myoblasts. To investigate the functional relevance of increased miR-210 levels in differentiated myofibers, we blocked miR-210 with complementary locked nucleic acid oligonucleotides (anti-miR-210). We found that C2C12 myoblast cell line differentiation was largely unaffected by anti-miR-210. Likewise, miR-210 inhibition did not affect skeletal muscle regeneration following cardiotoxin damage. However, we found that miR-210 blockade greatly increased myotube sensitivity to oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. In conclusion, miR-210 is induced in normoxic myofibers, playing a cytoprotective role.

23169590.txt

miR-451 regulates dendritic cell cytokine responses to influenza infection. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important posttranscriptional regulators in immune cells, but how viral infection regulates miRNA expression to shape dendritic cell (DC) responses has not been well characterized. We identified 20 miRNAs that were differentially expressed in primary murine DCs in response to the dsRNA agonist polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid, a subset of which were modestly regulated by influenza infection. miR-451 was unique because it was induced more strongly in primary splenic and lung DCs by live viral infection than by purified agonists of pattern recognition receptors. We determined that miR-451 regulates a subset of proinflammatory cytokine responses. Three types of primary DCs treated with antisense RNA antagomirs directed against miR-451 secreted elevated levels of IL-6, TNF, CCL5/RANTES, and CCL3/MIP1alpha, and these results were confirmed using miR-451(null) cells. miR-451 negatively regulates YWHAZ/14-3-3zeta protein levels in various cell types, and we measured a similar inhibition of YWHAZ levels in DCs. It is known that YWHAZ can control the activity of two negative regulators of cytokine production: FOXO3, which is an inhibitory transcription factor, and ZFP36/Tristetraprolin, which binds to AU-rich elements within 3'-untranslated regions to destabilize cytokine mRNAs. Inhibition of miR-451 expression correlated with increased YWHAZ protein expression and decreased ZFP36 expression, providing a possible mechanism for the elevated secretion of IL-6, TNF, CCL5/RANTES, and CCL3/MIP1alpha. miR-451 levels are themselves increased by IL-6 and type I IFN, potentially forming a regulatory loop. These data suggest that viral infection specifically induces a miRNA that directs a negative regulatory cascade to tune DC cytokine production.

23190607.txt

MicroRNA-203 contributes to skin re-epithelialization. Keratinocyte proliferation and migration are crucial steps for the rapid closure of the epidermis during wound healing, but the molecular mechanisms involved in this cellular response remain to be completely elucidated. Here, by in situ hybridization we characterize the expression pattern of miR-203 after the induction of wound in mouse epidermis, showing that its expression is downregulated in the highly proliferating keratinocytes of the 'migrating tongue', whereas it is strongly expressed in the differentiating cells of the skin outside the wound. Furthermore, subcutaneous injections of antagomiR-203 in new born mice dorsal skin strengthened, in vivo, the inverse correlation between miR-203 expression and two new target mRNAs: RAN and RAPH1. Our data suggest that miR-203, by controlling the expression of target proteins that are responsible for both keratinocyte proliferation and migration, exerts a specific role in wound re-epithelialization and epidermal homeostasis re-establishment of injured skin.

23190608.txt

miR-29b sensitizes multiple myeloma cells to bortezomib-induced apoptosis through the activation of a feedback loop with the transcription factor Sp1. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) with tumor-suppressor potential might have therapeutic applications in multiple myeloma (MM) through the modulation of still undiscovered molecular pathways. Here, we investigated the effects of enforced expression of miR-29b on the apoptotic occurrence in MM and highlighted its role in the context of a new transcriptional loop that is finely tuned by the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. In details, in vitro growth inhibition and apoptosis of MM cells was induced by either transient expression of synthetic miR-29b or its stable lentivirus-enforced expression. We identified Sp1, a transcription factor endowed with oncogenic activity, as a negative regulator of miR-29b expression in MM cells. Since Sp1 expression and functions are regulated via the 26S proteasome, we investigated the effects of bortezomib on miR-29b-Sp1 loop, showing that miR-29b levels were indeed upregulated by the drug. At the same time, the bortezomib/miR-29b combination produced significant pro-apoptotic effects. We also demonstrated that the PI3K/AKT pathway plays a major role in the regulation of miR-29b-Sp1 loop and induction of apoptosis in MM cells. Finally, MM xenografts constitutively expressing miR-29b showed significant reduction of their tumorigenic potential. Our findings indicate that miR-29b is involved in a regulatory loop amenable of pharmacologic intervention and modulates the anti-MM activity of bortezomib in MM cells.

23206698.txt

miRNA-7-5p inhibits melanoma cell migration and invasion. Aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small non-coding regulatory RNAs, has been implicated in the development and progression of melanoma. However, the precise mechanistic role of many of these miRNAs remains unclear. We have investigated the functional role of miR-7-5p in melanoma, and demonstrate that miR-7-5p expression is reduced in metastatic melanoma-derived cell lines compared with primary melanoma cells, and that when ectopically expressed miR-7-5p significantly inhibits melanoma cell migration and invasion. Additionally, we report that insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS-2) is a target of miR-7-5p in melanoma cells, and using RNA interference (RNAi) we provide evidence that IRS-2 activates protein kinase B (Akt), and promotes melanoma cell migration. Thus, miR-7-5p may represent a novel tumor suppressor miRNA in melanoma, acting at least in part via its inhibition of IRS-2 expression and oncogenic Akt signaling.

23209027.txt

miRNA target enrichment analysis reveals directly active miRNAs in health and disease. microRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding regulatory RNA molecules. The activity of a miRNA in a biological process can often be reflected in the expression program that characterizes the outcome of the activity. We introduce a computational approach that infers such activity from high-throughput data using a novel statistical methodology, called minimum-mHG (mmHG), that examines mutual enrichment in two ranked lists. Based on this methodology, we provide a user-friendly web application that supports the statistical assessment of miRNA target enrichment analysis (miTEA) in the top of a ranked list of genes or proteins. Using miTEA, we analyze several target prediction tools by examining performance on public miRNA constitutive expression data. We also apply miTEA to analyze several integrative biology data sets, including a novel matched miRNA/mRNA data set covering nine human tissue types. Our novel findings include proposed direct activity of miR-519 in placenta, a direct activity of the oncogenic miR-15 in different healthy tissue types and a direct activity of the poorly characterized miR-768 in both healthy tissue types and cancer cell lines. The miTEA web application is available at http://cbl-gorilla.cs.technion.ac.il/miTEA/.

23271119.txt

Dynamic evolution of mir-17-92 gene cluster and related miRNA gene families in vertebrates. mir-17-92 gene cluster is widely distributed in vertebrates and plays an important role in regulating multiple biological processes. Its dysregulation may be associated with risk of some human cancers. The microRNA (miRNA) members are identified in the three gene families: mir-17, mir-19 and mir-25. Herein we attempted to understand the evolutionary processes and patterns in vertebrates. The three miRNA gene families showed difference in distribution, number of miRNA genes and clustered miRNA genes in the five animal species. Compared to other related gene clusters, mir-17-92 cluster was well-conserved and had more abundant roles in multiple biological processes. These clustered miRNAs showed inconsistent nucleotide divergence patterns across different animal species, even between homologous miRNA genes. Simultaneously, they also indicated inconsistent expression patterns although they were co-transcribed as a polycistronic transcript. Phylogenetic tree based on human pre-miRNA sequences showed that mir-19 gene family was an older miRNA species, while tree based on miRNA gene cluster indicated evolutionary positions of different animal species. The study shows dynamic evolution of the mir-17-92 gene cluster and related miRNA gene families across vertebrates, which may be derived from potential functional implication. miRNA gene cluster should be a better phylogenetic marker than a single miRNA gene to reveal functional and evolutionary relationships.

23396109.txt

Downregulation of miR-17&#126;92 Expression Increase Paclitaxel Sensitivity in Human Ovarian Carcinoma SKOV3-TR30 Cells via BIM Instead of PTEN. To better understand the molecular mechanisms of paclitaxel resistance in ovarian carcinoma, we evaluated the expression of miRNAs using miRNA microarray between human ovarian carcinoma SKOV3 cells and paclitaxel resistant SKOV3-TR30 cells. Results showed that 69 miRNAs were upregulated while 102 miRNAs were downregulated in SKOV3-TR30 cells. Using real-time PCR, we further clarified that miR-17~92 was overexpressed in SKOV3-TR30 cells compared with that in SKOV3 cells. We then established stable virally transduced SKOV3-TR30-m-PTIP-Sponge all SKOV3-TR30 cells and its vector-only control SKOV3-TR30-m-PTIP-GFP cells. Real time-PCR revealed that SKOV3-TR30-m-PTIP-Sponge all cells expressed approximately 6.18-fold lower levels of miR-17~92 compared with the control group. Decreased expression of miR-17~92 resulted in cell cycle arrest in the G2/M phase and growth inhibition. After the transduction, the BIM protein level was increased in SKOV3-TR30 cells and luciferase reporter assays revealed that miR-17~92 binds directly to the 3'-UTR of BIM. Results of luciferase reporter assays accompanied with Western Blot showed that although miR-17~92 binds directly to the 3'-UTR of PTEN, the PTEN protein expression level was upregulated slightly while the result is of no statistical significance. Our results showed that miR-17~92 could be a causal factor of the downregulation of BIM in SKOV3-TR30 cells and thus induce the paclitaxel resistance in SKOV3-TR30 cells.

23461866.txt

The miRNA and mRNA changes in rat hippocampi after chronic constriction injury. OBJECTIVE: We elaborated the rat hippocampi in order to assess for central nervous system changes following a peripheral neuropathic injury. DESIGN, SETTING, SUBJECTS: We examined the gene changes in the hippocampi of chronic constriction injury (CCI) rats with TaqMan(R) low-density array analysis (TLDA) and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) of miR-125b, -132, and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) of neuropeptide Y, brain-derived neural factor, N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate 2A receptor, gamma-aminobutyric acid A a1 receptor, gamma-aminobutyric acid A b1 receptor, gamma-aminobutyric acid B b2 receptor, serotonin 1A receptor, serotonin 2A receptor, serotonin 2C receptor, and serotonin 3A receptor on days 0, 7, and 15 after surgery. INTERVENTIONS: None. OUTCOME MEASURES: Two behavioral tests (thermal and mechanical stimulation tests) were performed three times at 5-minute intervals to assess pain thresholds. MicroRNA (miRNA) changes were examined by TLDA. mRNA changes were examined by qRT-PCR. Statistical significance was determined by Tukey-Kramer's method and paired t-test. RESULTS: All rats showed mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity on the ipsilateral side. Out of 373 miRNAs analyzed, 237 were expressed, and 51 changed their expressions after CCI. By TLDA, cluster analysis found obvious miRNA changes on day 7 that tended to recover by day 15. For miR-125b, the relative expression decreased to 0.70 +/- 0.30 at day 7 and recovered to 1.65 +/- 0.19 at day 15. The miR-132 relative expressions were 0.69 +/- 0.30 and 0.70 +/- 0.15, respectively. The mRNA changes followed the miRNA changes. CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that the peripheral nerve injury altered rat hippocampal miRNA.

23469005.txt

Circulating microRNAs and aerobic fitness--the HUNT-Study. Aerobic fitness, measured as maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), is a good indicator of cardiovascular health, and a strong predictor of cardiovascular mortality. Biomarkers associated with low VO2max may therefore represent potential early markers of future cardiovascular disease (CVD). The aim of this study was to assess whether circulating microRNAs (miRs) are associated with VO2max-level in healthy individuals. In a screening study, 720 miRs were measured in serum samples from healthy individuals (40-45 yrs) with high (n = 12) or low (n = 12) VO2max matched for gender, age and physical activity. Candiate miRs were validated in a second cohort of subjects with high (n = 38) or low (n = 38) VO2max. miR-210 and miR-222 were found to be higher in the low VO2max-group (p<0.05). In addition, miR-21 was increased in male participants with low VO2max (p<0.05). There were no correlations between traditional risk factors for CVD (blood pressure, cholesterol, smoking habit, or obesity) and miR-21, miR-210 and miR-222. DIANA-mirPath identified 611 potential gene-targets of miR-21, miR-210 and miR-222, and pathway analysis indicated alterations in several important signaling systems in subjects with low VO2max. Potential bias involve that blood was collected from non-fasting individuals, and that 8 performed exercise within 24 h before sampling. In conclusion, we found that miR-210, miR-21, and miR-222 were increased in healthy subjects with low VO2max. The lack of association between these three miRs, and other fitness related variables as well as traditional CVD risk factors, suggests that these miRs may have a potential as new independent biomarkers of fitness level and future CVD.

23472202.txt

The miR-183/Taok1 target pair is implicated in cochlear responses to acoustic trauma. Acoustic trauma, one of the leading causes of sensorineural hearing loss, induces sensory hair cell damage in the cochlea. Identifying the molecular mechanisms involved in regulating sensory hair cell death is critical towards developing effective treatments for preventing hair cell damage. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to participate in the regulatory mechanisms of inner ear development and homeostasis. However, their involvement in cochlear sensory cell degeneration following acoustic trauma is unknown. Here, we profiled the expression pattern of miRNAs in the cochlear sensory epithelium, defined miRNA responses to acoustic overstimulation, and explored potential mRNA targets of miRNAs that may be responsible for the stress responses of the cochlea. Expression analysis of miRNAs in the cochlear sensory epithelium revealed constitutive expression of 176 miRNAs, many of which have not been previously reported in cochlear tissue. Exposure to intense noise caused significant threshold shift and apoptotic activity in the cochleae. Gene expression analysis of noise-traumatized cochleae revealed time-dependent transcriptional changes in the expression of miRNAs. Target prediction analysis revealed potential target genes of the significantly downregulated miRNAs, many of which had cell death- and apoptosis-related functions. Verification of the predicted targets revealed a significant upregulation of Taok1, a target of miRNA-183. Moreover, inhibition of miR-183 with morpholino antisense oligos in cochlear organotypic cultures revealed a negative correlation between the expression levels of miR-183 and Taok1, suggesting the presence of a miR-183/Taok1 target pair. Together, miRNA profiling as well as the target analysis and validation suggest the involvement of miRNAs in the regulation of the degenerative process of the cochlea following acoustic overstimulation. The miR-183/Taok1 target pair is likely to play a role in this regulatory process.

23493786.txt

Choline protects against cardiac hypertrophy induced by increased after-load. BACKGROUND: Although inadequate intake of essential nutrient choline has been known to significantly increase cardiovascular risk, whether additional supplement of choline offering a protection against cardiac hypertrophy remain unstudied. METHODS: The effects of choline supplements on pathological cardiac hypertrophic growth induced by transverse aorta constriction (TAC) for three weeks and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in cultured cells induced by isoproterenol (ISO) 10 muM for 48 h stimulation were investigated. Western blot analysis and real-time PCR were used to determine the expression of ANP, BNP, beta-MHC, miR-133a and Calcineurin. RESULTS: Administration of 14 mg/kg choline to mice undergone TAC effectively attenuated the cardiac hypertrophic responses, as indicated by the reduced heart weight, left ventricular weight, ventricular thickness, and reduced expression of biomarker genes of cardiac hypertrophy. This anti-hypertrophic efficacy was reproduced in a cellular model of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol in cultured neonatal cardiomyocytes. Our results further showed that choline rescued the aberrant downregulation of the muscle-specific microRNA miR-133a expression, a recently identified anti-hypertrophic factor, and restored the elevated calcineurin protein level, the key signaling molecule for the development of cardiac hypertrophy. These effects of choline were abolished by the M3 mAChR-specific antagonist 4-DAMP. CONCLUSION: Our study unraveled for the first time the cardioprotection of choline against cardiac hypertrophy, with correction of expression of miR-133a and calcineurin as a possible mechanism. Our findings suggest that choline supplement may be considered for adjunct anti-hypertrophy therapy.

23516615.txt

MicroRNA regulation of adipose derived stem cells in aging rats. BACKGROUND: Perturbations in abdominal fat secreted adipokines play a key role in metabolic syndrome. This process is further altered during the aging process, probably due to alterations in the preadipocytes (aka. stromal vascular fraction cells-SVF cells or adipose derived stem cells-ASCs) composition and/or function. Since microRNAs regulate genes involved both in development and aging processes, we hypothesized that the impaired adipose function with aging is due to altered microRNA regulation of adipogenic pathways in SVF cells. METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Alterations in mRNA and proteins associated with adipogenic differentiation (ERK5 and PPARg) but not osteogenic (RUNX2) pathways were observed in SVF cells isolated from visceral adipose tissue with aging (6 to 30 mo) in female Fischer 344 x Brown Norway Hybrid (FBN) rats. The impaired differentiation capacity with aging correlated with altered levels of miRNAs involved in adipocyte differentiation (miRNA-143) and osteogenic pathways (miRNA-204). Gain and loss of function studies using premir or antagomir-143 validated the age associated adipocyte dysfunction. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: Our studies for the first time indicate a role for miRNA mediated regulation of SVF cells with aging. This discovery is important in the light of the findings that dysfunctional adipose derived stem cells contribute to age related chronic diseases.

23519125.txt

Functional cooperation of miR-125a, miR-125b, and miR-205 in entinostat-induced downregulation of erbB2/erbB3 and apoptosis in breast cancer cells. We reported that the class I HDAC inhibitor entinostat induced apoptosis in erbB2-overexpressing breast cancer cells via downregulation of erbB2 and erbB3. Here, we study the molecular mechanism by which entinostat dual-targets erbB2/erbB3. Treatment with entinostat had no effect on erbB2/erbB3 mRNA, suggesting a transcription-independent mechanism. Entinostat decreased endogenous but not exogenous erbB2/erbB3, indicating it did not alter their protein stability. We hypothesized that entinostat might inhibit erbB2/erbB3 protein translation via specific miRNAs. Indeed, entinostat significantly upregulated miR-125a, miR-125b, and miR-205, that have been reported to target erbB2 and/or erbB3. Specific inhibitors were then used to determine whether these miRNAs had a causal role in entinostat-induced downregulation of erbB2/erbB3 and apoptosis. Transfection with a single inhibitor dramatically abrogated entinostat induction of miR-125a, miR-125b, or miR-205; however, none of the inhibitors blocked entinostat action on erbB2/erbB3. In contrast, co-transfection with two inhibitors not only reduced their corresponding miRNAs, but also significantly abrogated entinostat-mediated reduction of erbB2/erbB3. Moreover, simultaneous inhibition of two, but not one miRNA significantly attenuated entinostat-induced apoptosis. Interestingly, although the other HDAC inhibitors, such as SAHA and panobinostat, exhibited activity as potent as entinostat to induce growth inhibition and apoptosis in erbB2-overexpressing breast cancer cells, they had no significant effects on the three miRNAs. Instead, both SAHA- and panobinostat-decreased erbB2/erbB3 expression correlated with the reduction of their mRNA levels. Collectively, we demonstrate that entinostat specifically induces expression of miR-125a, miR-125b, and miR-205, which act in concert to downregulate erbB2/erbB3 in breast cancer cells. Our data suggest that epigenetic regulation via miRNA-dependent or -independent mechanisms may represent a novel approach to treat breast cancer patients with erbB2-overexpressing tumors.

23527070.txt

Induction of thoracic aortic remodeling by endothelial-specific deletion of microRNA-21 in mice. MicroRNAs (miRs) are known to have an important role in modulating vascular biology. MiR21 was found to be involved in the pathogenesis of proliferative vascular disease. The role of miR21 in endothelial cells (ECs) has well studied in vitro, but the study in vivo remains to be elucidated. In this study, miR21 endothelial-specific knockout mice were generated by Cre/LoxP system. Compared with wild-type mice, the miR21 deletion in ECs resulted in structural and functional remodeling of aorta significantly, such as diastolic pressure dropping, maximal tension depression, endothelium-dependent relaxation impairment, an increase of opening angles and wall-thickness/inner diameter ratio, and compliance decrease, in the miR21 endothelial-specific knockout mice. Furthermore, the miR21 deletion in ECs induced down-regulation of collagen I, collagen III and elastin mRNA and proteins, as well as up-regulation of Smad7 and down-regulation of Smad2/5 in the aorta of miR21 endothelial-specific knockout mice. CTGF and downstream MMP/TIMP changes were also identified to mediate vascular remodeling. The results showed that miR21 is identified as a critical molecule to modulate vascular remodeling, which will help to understand the role of miR21 in vascular biology and the pathogenesis of vascular diseases.

23534973.txt

Maternal asthma and microRNA regulation of soluble HLA-G in the airway. BACKGROUND: We previously reported an interaction between maternal asthma and the child's HLA-G genotype on the child's subsequent risk for asthma. The implicated single nucleotide polymorphism at +3142 disrupted a target site for the microRNA (miR)-152 family. We hypothesized that the interaction effect might be mediated by these miRs. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to test this hypothesis in adults with asthma who are a subset of the same subjects who participated in our earlier family-based studies. METHODS: We measured soluble HLA-G (sHLA-G) concentrations in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (n = 36) and plasma (n = 57) from adult asthmatic subjects with and without a mother with asthma, and HLA-G and miR-152 family (miR-148a, miR-148b, and miR-152) transcript levels in airway epithelial cells from the same subjects. RESULTS: miR-148b levels were significantly increased in airway epithelial cells from asthmatic subjects with an asthmatic mother compared with those seen in asthmatic subjects without an asthmatic mother, and +3142 genotypes were associated with sHLA-G concentrations in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid among asthmatic subjects with an asthmatic mother but not among those with a nonasthmatic mother. Neither effect was observed in the plasma (sHLA-G) or white blood cells (miRNA). CONCLUSION: These combined results are consistent with +3142 allele-specific targeting of HLA-G by the miR-152 family and support our hypothesis that miRNA regulation of sHLA-G in the airway is influenced by both the asthma status of the subject's mother and the subject's genotype. Moreover, we demonstrate that the effects of maternal asthma on the gene regulatory landscape in the airways of the mother's children persist into adulthood.

23579289.txt

MicroRNA-214 suppresses osteogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblast cells by targeting Osterix. Osterix (Osx) is an osteoblast-specific transcription factor that is essential for osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. Osx-null mice, which exhibit a complete absence of bone formation and arrested osteoblast differentiation, die immediately after birth. However, our understanding of the regulatory mechanism of Osx expression remains poor. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small non-coding RNAs that play pivotal roles in diverse biological processes, including the development, differentiation, proliferation, survival, and oncogenesis of cells and organisms. In this study, we aimed to investigate the impact of miRNAs on Osx expression. Bioinformatic analyses predicted that miR-214 would be a potential regulator of Osx. The direct binding of miR-214 to the Osx 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) was demonstrated by a luciferase reporter assay using a construct containing the Osx 3' UTR. Deletion mutant construction revealed that the Osx 3' UTR contained two miR-214 binding sites. MiR-214 expression was inversely correlated with Osx expression in Saos-2 and U2OS cells. The forced expression of miR-214 in Saos-2 cells led to a reduction in the level of Osx protein. Moreover, the role of miR-214 in the osteogenic differentiation of C2C12 cells was investigated. We found that the osteogenic differentiation of C2C12 cells was enhanced by the downregulation of miR-214 expression, as measured by increased alkaline phosphatase activity and matrix mineralization. Taken together, these results indicate that miR-214 is a novel regulator of Osx, and that it plays an important role in the osteogenic differentiation of C2C12 cells as a suppressor.

23583389.txt

The induction of miR-96 by mitochondrial dysfunction causes impaired glycogen synthesis through translational repression of IRS-1 in SK-Hep1 cells. MicroRNA (miRNA) is a class of endogenous small noncoding RNA that negatively regulates gene expression at the post-transcriptional level and plays an important role in the pathogenesis of various diseases. However, the identity and role of miRNAs involved in the development of insulin resistance resulting from mitochondrial dysfunction are largely unknown. In this study, mitochondrial dysfunction by genetic or metabolic inhibition induced an impairment of insulin signaling in SK-Hep1 cells via a reduction in the expression of IRS-1 protein. Significant up-regulation of miR-96, which was presumed to target IRS-1 3'UTR, was found in SK-Hep1 cells with mitochondrial dysfunction. Using reporter gene assay we confirmed that miR-96 authentically targeted IRS-1 3'UTR. Furthermore, the ectopic expression of miR-96 caused a substantial decrease in IRS-1 protein expression, and a consequent impairment in insulin signaling. These findings suggest that the up-regulation of miR-96 by mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to the development of insulin resistance by targeting IRS-1 in SK-Hep1 cells.

23592910.txt

Differential regulation of microRNA-146a and microRNA-146b-5p in human retinal pigment epithelial cells by interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interferon-gamma. PURPOSE: The inflammatory response of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is implicated in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration. The microRNAs miR-146a and miR-146b-5p can regulate the inflammatory process by attenuating cytokine signaling via the nuclear factor-kappaB pathway. The aim of the present study is to investigate the expression of miR-146a and miR-146b-5p in human RPE cells and their response to proinflammatory cytokines. METHODS: Confluent cultures of RPE cells established from adult human donor eyes were treated with the proinflammatory cytokines interferon (IFN)-gamma, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and interleukin (IL)-1beta. The expression of microRNAs was analyzed by real-time PCR using total RNA fraction. The retinal pigment epithelial cell line ARPE-19 was employed to analyze the promoter activity of the genes encoding miR-146a and miR-146b-5p. STAT1-binding activity of oligonucleotides was analyzed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. ARPE-19 cells were transiently transfected with miR-146a and miR-146b-5p mimics for the analysis of IRAK1 expression by western immunoblotting. RESULTS: Real-time PCR analysis showed that miR-146a and 146b-5p are expressed in RPE cells. The cells responded to proinflammatory cytokines (IFN-gamma + TNF-alpha + IL-1beta) by highly increasing the expression of both miR-146a and miR-146b-5p. This was associated with an increase in the expression of transcripts for CCL2, CCL5, CXCL9, CXCL10, and IL-6, and a decrease in that for HMOX1. The miR-146a induction was more dependent on IL-1beta, since its omission from the cytokine mix resulted in a greatly reduced response. Similarly, the induction of miR-146b-5p was more dependent on IFN-gamma, since its omission from the cytokine mix minimized the effect. In addition, the increase in MIR146B promoter activity by the cytokine mix was effectively blocked by JAK inhibitor 1, a known inhibitor of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. The expression of IRAK1 protein was decreased when ARPE-19 cells were transiently transfected with either miR-146a mimic or miR-146b-5p mimic. CONCLUSIONS: Our results clearly show that both miR-146a and miR-146b-5p are expressed in human RPE cells in culture and their expression is highly induced by proinflammatory cytokines (IFN-gamma + TNF-alpha + IL-1beta). The induction of miR-146a showed a dependency on IL-1beta, while that of miR-146b-5p on IFN-gamma. Our results show for the first time that miR-146b-5p expression is regulated by IFN-gamma, potentially via the JAK/STAT pathway. These two microRNAs could play a role in inflammatory processes underlying age-related macular degeneration or other retinal degenerative diseases through their ability to negatively regulate the nuclear factor-kappaB pathway by targeting the expression of IRAK1.

23611780.txt

MicroRNA-106b-25 cluster targets beta-TRCP2, increases the expression of Snail and enhances cell migration and invasion in H1299 (non small cell lung cancer) cells. Lung cancer causes high mortality without a declining trend and non small cell lung cancer represents 85% of all pulmonary carcinomas. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) serve as fine regulators of proliferation, migration, invasion/metastasis and angiogenesis of normal and cancer cells. Using TargetScan6.2, we predicted that the ubiquitin ligase, beta-TRCP2, could be a target for two of the constituent miRNAs of the miR-106b-25 cluster (miR-106b and miR-93). We generated a stable clone of miR-106b-25 cluster (CL) or the empty vector (EV) in H1299 (non small cell lung cancer) cells. The expression of beta-TRCP2 mRNA was significantly lower in CL than that in EV cells. Transient expression of miR-93 but not antimiR-93 decreased the expression of beta-TRCP2 mRNA in H1299 cells. beta-TRCP2-3'UTR reporter assay revealed that its activity in CL cells was only 60% of that in EV cells. Snail protein expression was higher in CL than that in EV cells and H1299 cells exhibited an increase in the expression of Snail upon transient transfection with miR-93. miR-106b-25 cluster-induced migration of CL measured by scratch assay was more than that in EV cells and no significant difference in migration was observed between antimiR-93-transfected H1299 cells and the corresponding control-oligo-transfected cells. miR-106b-25 cluster-induced migration of CL cells was again confirmed in a Boyden chamber assay without the matrigel. CL cells were more invasive than EV cells when assessed using Boyden chambers with matrigel but there were no significant changes in the cell viabilities between EV and CL cells. Colony formation assay revealed that the CL cells formed more number of colonies than EV cells but they were smaller in size than those formed by EV cells. The supernatant from CL cells was more effective than that from EV cells in inducing tube formation in endothelial cells. Taken together, our data indicate that miR-106b-25 cluster may play an important role in the metastasis of human non-small cell lung cancer cells by directly suppressing the beta-TRCP2 gene expression with a consequent increase in the expression of Snail.

23630358.txt

Prostaglandin E2-induced changes in alveolar macrophage scavenger receptor profiles differentially alter phagocytosis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus post-bone marrow transplant. The effectiveness of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation as a therapy for malignant and nonmalignant conditions is complicated by pulmonary infections. Using our syngeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT) mouse model, BMT mice with a reconstituted hematopoietic system displayed increased susceptibility to Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. BMT alveolar macrophages (AMs) exhibited a defect in P. aeruginosa phagocytosis, whereas S. aureus uptake was surprisingly enhanced. We hypothesized that the difference in phagocytosis was due to an altered scavenger receptor (SR) profile. Interestingly, MARCO expression was decreased, whereas SR-AI/II was increased. To understand how these dysregulated SR profiles might affect macrophage function, CHO cells were transfected with SR-AI/II, and phagocytosis assays revealed that SR-AI/II was important for S. aureus uptake but not for P. aeruginosa. Conversely, AMs treated in vitro with soluble MARCO exhibited similar defects in P. aeruginosa internalization as did BMT AMs. The 3'-untranslated region of SR-AI contains a putative target region for microRNA-155 (miR-155), and miR-155 expression is decreased post-BMT. Anti-miR-155-transfected AMs exhibited an increase in SR-AI/II expression and S. aureus phagocytosis. Elevated PGE2 has been implicated in driving an impaired innate immune response post-BMT. In vitro treatment of AMs with PGE2 increased SR-AI/II and decreased MARCO and miR-155. Despite a difference in phagocytic ability, BMT AMs harbor a killing defect to both P. aeruginosa and S. aureus. Thus, our data suggest that PGE2-driven alterations in SR and miR-155 expression account for the differential phagocytosis of P. aeruginosa and S. aureus, but impaired killing ultimately confers increased susceptibility to pulmonary infection.

23643257.txt

Increased levels of microRNA-424 are associated with the pathogenesis of fetal growth restriction. Studies show a number of miRNAs are expressed in the placenta including miRNA-424, a hypoxia-regulated miRNA, suggesting miRNA-424 may have a potential regulatory role in fetal growth restriction (FGR). The levels of miRNA-424 and its target gene, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MEK1), and fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) were examined. The levels of miRNA-424 were significantly increased in placentae from women with FGR. Both mRNA levels and protein levels of MEK1 and FGFR1 were significantly reduced in placentae complicated with FGR. Furthermore, the increased levels of miRNA-424 were negatively correlated with the mRNA levels of MEK1 in placentae complicated with FGR. Our study suggests upregulated miRNA-424 may be associated with the pathogenesis of FGR.

23667256.txt

Zeb1 regulates E-cadherin and Epcam (epithelial cell adhesion molecule) expression to control cell behavior in early zebrafish development. The ZEB1 transcription factor is best known as an inducer of epithelial-mesenchymal transitions (EMT) in cancer metastasis, acting through transcriptional repression of CDH1 (encoding E-cadherin) and the EMT-suppressing microRNA-200s (miR-200s). Here we analyze roles of the ZEB1 zebrafish orthologs, Zeb1a and Zeb1b, and of miR-200s in control of cell adhesion and morphogenesis during gastrulation and segmentation stages. Loss and gain of function analyses revealed that Zeb1 represses cdh1 expression to fine-tune adhesiveness of migrating deep blastodermal cells. Furthermore, Zeb1 acts as a repressor of epcam in the deep cells of the blastoderm and may contribute to control of epithelial integrity of enveloping layer cells, the outermost cells of the blastoderm. We found a similar ZEB1-dependent repression of EPCAM expression in human pancreatic and breast cancer cell lines, mediated through direct binding of ZEB1 to the EPCAM promoter. Thus, Zeb1 proteins employ several evolutionary conserved mechanisms to regulate cell-cell adhesion during development and cancer.

23667495.txt

Multiple-to-multiple relationships between microRNAs and target genes in gastric cancer. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) act as transcriptional regulators and play pivotal roles in carcinogenesis. According to miRNA target databases, one miRNA may regulate many genes as its targets, while one gene may be targeted by many miRNAs. These findings indicate that relationships between miRNAs and their targets may not be one-to-one. However, many reports have described only a one-to-one, one-to-multiple or multiple-to-one relationship between miRNA and its target gene in human cancers. Thus, it is necessary to determine whether or not a combination of some miRNAs would regulate multiple targets and be involved in carcinogenesis. To find some groups of miRNAs that may synergistically regulate their targets in human gastric cancer (GC), we re-analyzed our previous miRNA expression array data and found that 50 miRNAs were up-regulated on treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine in a GC cell line. The "TargetScan" miRNA target database predicted that some of these miRNAs have common target genes. We also referred to the GEO database for expression of these common target genes in human GCs, which might be related to gastric carcinogenesis. In this study, we analyzed two miRNA combinations, miR-224 and -452, and miR-181c and -340. Over-expression of both miRNA combinations dramatically down-regulated their target genes, DPYSL2 and KRAS, and KRAS and MECP2, respectively. These miRNA combinations synergistically decreased cell proliferation upon transfection. Furthermore, we revealed that these miRNAs were down-regulated through promoter hypermethylation in GC cells. Thus, it is likely that the relationships between miRNAs and their targets are not one-to-one but multiple-to-multiple in GCs, and that these complex relationships may be related to gastric carcinogenesis.

23705682.txt

Identification of miRNAs associated with sexual maturity in chicken ovary by Illumina small RNA deep sequencing. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs have been suggested to play important roles in the regulation of gene expression in various biological processes. To investigate the function of miRNAs in chicken ovarian development and folliculogenesis, two small RNA libraries constructed from sexually mature (162-day old) and immature (42-day old) ovary tissues of Single Comb White Leghorn chicken were sequenced using Illumina small RNA deep sequencing. RESULTS: In the present study, 14,545,100 and 14,774,864 clean reads were obtained from sexually mature (162-d) and sexually immature (42-d) ovaries, respectively. In total, 202 known miRNAs were identified, and 93 of them were found to be significantly differentially expressed: 42 miRNAs were up-regulated and 51 miRNAs were down-regulated in the mature ovary compared to the immature ovary. Among the up-regulated miRNAs, gga-miR-1a has the largest fold-change (6.405-fold), while gga-miR-375 has the largest fold-change (11.345-fold) among the down-regulated miRNAs. The three most abundant miRNAs in the chicken ovary are gga-miR-10a, gga-let-7 and gga-miR-21. Five differentially expressed miRNAs (gga-miR-1a, 21, 26a, 137 and 375) were validated by real-time quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Furthermore, the expression patterns of the five miRNAs were analyzed in different developmental stages of chicken ovary and follicles of various sizes. CONCLUSION: The present study provides the first miRNA profile in sexually immature and mature chicken ovaries. Some miRNAs such as gga-miR-1a and gga-miR-21are expressed differentially in immature and mature chicken ovaries as well as among different sized follicles, suggesting an important role in the follicular growth or ovulation mechanism in the chicken.

23747354.txt

Over-expression of the miRNA cluster at chromosome 14q32 in the alcoholic brain correlates with suppression of predicted target mRNA required for oligodendrocyte proliferation. We examined miRNA expression from RNA isolated from the frontal cortex (Broadman area 9) of 9 alcoholics (6 males, 3 females, mean age 48 years) and 9 matched controls using both the Affymetrix GeneChip miRNA 2.0 and Human Exon 1.0 ST Arrays to further characterize genetic influences in alcoholism and the effects of alcohol consumption on predicted target mRNA expression. A total of 12 human miRNAs were significantly up-regulated in alcohol dependent subjects (fold change>/=1.5, false discovery rate (FDR)</=0.3; p<0.05) compared with controls including a cluster of 4 miRNAs (e.g., miR-377, miR-379) from the maternally expressed 14q32 chromosome region. The status of the up-regulated miRNAs was supported using the high-throughput method of exon microarrays showing decreased predicted mRNA gene target expression as anticipated from the same RNA aliquot. Predicted mRNA targets were involved in cellular adhesion (e.g., THBS2), tissue differentiation (e.g., CHN2), neuronal migration (e.g., NDE1), myelination (e.g., UGT8, CNP) and oligodendrocyte proliferation (e.g., ENPP2, SEMA4D1). Our data support an association of alcoholism with up-regulation of a cluster of miRNAs located in the genomic imprinted domain on chromosome 14q32 with their predicted gene targets involved with oligodendrocyte growth, differentiation and signaling.

23759586.txt

Attenuation of dexamethasone-induced cell death in multiple myeloma is mediated by miR-125b expression. Dexamethasone is a key front-line chemotherapeutic for B-cell malignant multiple myeloma (MM). Dexamethasone modulates MM cell survival signaling but fails to induce marked cytotoxicity when used as a monotherapy. We demonstrate here the mechanism behind this insufficient responsiveness of MM cells toward dexamethasone, revealing in MM a dramatic anti-apoptotic role for microRNA (miRNA)-125b in the insensitivity toward dexamethasone-induced apoptosis. MM cells responding to dexamethasone exhibited enhanced expression of oncogenic miR-125b. Dexamethasone also induced expression of miR-34a, which acts to suppress SIRT1 deacetylase, and thus allows maintained acetylation and inactivation of p53. p53 mRNA is also suppressed by miR-125b targeting. Reporter assays showed that both these dexamethasone-induced miRNAs act downstream of their target genes to prevent p53 tumor suppressor actions and, ultimately, resist cytotoxic responses in MM. Use of antisense miR-125b transcripts enhanced expression of pro-apoptotic p53, repressed expression of anti-apoptotic SIRT1 and, importantly, significantly enhanced dexamethasone-induced cell death responses in MM. Pharmacological manipulations showed that the key regulation enabling complete dexamethasone sensitivity in MM cells lies with miR-125b. In summary, dexamethasone-induced miR-125b induces cell death resistance mechanisms in MM cells via the p53/miR-34a/SIRT1 signaling network and provides these cells with an enhanced level of resistance to cytotoxic chemotherapeutics. Clearly, such anti-apoptotic mechanisms will need to be overcome to more effectively treat nascent, refractory and relapsed MM patients. These mechanisms provide insight into the role of miRNA regulation of apoptosis and their promotion of MM cell proliferative mechanisms.

23797704.txt

Regulation of TIMP3 in diabetic nephropathy: a role for microRNAs. Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the major cause of chronic kidney disease in developed countries and contributes significantly to increased morbidity and mortality among diabetic patients. Morphologically, DN is characterized by tubulo-interstitial fibrosis, thickening of the glomerular basement membrane and mesangial expansion mainly due to accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM). ECM turnover is regulated by metalloproteinases and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) activities. In diabetic conditions, TIMP3 expression in kidney is strongly reduced, but the causes of this reduction are still unknown. The aim of this study was to elucidate at least one of these mechanisms which relies on differential expression of TIMP3-targeting microRNAs (miRs) in a hyperglycemic environment either in vitro (MES13 cell line) or in vivo (mouse kidney and human biopsies). Among the TIMP3-targeting miRs, miR-21 and miR-221 were significantly upregulated in kidneys from diabetic mice compared to control littermates, and in a mesangial cell line grown in high glucose conditions. In human samples, only miR-21 expression was increased in kidney biopsies from diabetic patients compared to healthy controls. The expression of miR-217, which targets TIMP3 indirectly through downregulation of SirT1, was also increased in diabetic kidney and MES13 cell line. In agreement with these result, SirT1 expression was reduced in mouse and human diabetic kidneys as well as in MES13 mesangial cell line. TIMP3 deficiency has recently emerged as a hallmark of DN in mouse and human. In this study, we demonstrated that this reduction is due, at least in part, to increased expression of certain TIMP3-targeting miRs in diabetic kidneys compared to healthy controls. Unveiling the post-transcriptional mechanisms responsible for TIMP3 downregulation in hyperglycemic conditions may orient toward the use of this protein as a possible therapeutic target in DN.

23836497.txt

MiRNA-20 and mirna-106a regulate spermatogonial stem cell renewal at the post-transcriptional level via targeting STAT3 and Ccnd1. Studies on spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) are of unusual significance because they are the unique stem cells that transmit genetic information to subsequent generations and they can acquire pluripotency to become embryonic stem-like cells that have therapeutic applications in human diseases. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as critical endogenous regulators in mammalian cells. However, the function and mechanisms of individual miRNAs in regulating SSC fate remain unknown. Here, we report for the first time that miRNA-20 and miRNA-106a are preferentially expressed in mouse SSCs. Functional assays in vitro and in vivo using miRNA mimics and inhibitors reveal that miRNA-20 and miRNA-106a are essential for renewal of SSCs. We further demonstrate that these two miRNAs promote renewal at the post-transcriptional level via targeting STAT3 and Ccnd1 and that knockdown of STAT3, Fos, and Ccnd1 results in renewal of SSCs. This study thus provides novel insights into molecular mechanisms regulating renewal and differentiation of SSCs and may have important implications for regulating male reproduction.

23846169.txt

Circulating microRNAs predict biochemical recurrence in prostate cancer patients. BACKGROUND: Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) are emerging as promising biomarkers for prostate cancer. Here, we investigated the potential of these molecules to assist in prognosis and treatment decision-making. METHODS: MicroRNAs in the serum of patients who had experienced rapid biochemical recurrence (BCR) (n=8) or no recurrence (n=8) following radical prostatectomy (RP) were profiled using high-throughput qRT-PCR. Recurrence-associated miRNAs were subsequently quantitated by qRT-PCR in a validation cohort comprised of 70 patients with Gleason 7 cancers treated by RP, 31 of whom had undergone disease progression following surgery. The expression of recurrence-associated miRNAs was also examined in tumour tissue cohorts. RESULTS: Three miRNAs - miR-141, miR-146b-3p and miR-194 - were elevated in patients who subsequently experienced BCR in the screening study. MiR-146b-3p and miR-194 were also associated with disease progression in the validation cohort, as determined by log-rank tests and Cox proportional hazards regression. Multivariate analysis revealed that miR-146b-3p possessed prognostic information beyond standard clinicopathological parameters. Analysis of tissue cohorts revealed that miR-194 was robustly expressed in the prostate, elevated in metastases, and its expression in primary tumours was associated with a poor prognosis. CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that circulating miRNAs, measured at the time of RP, could be combined with current prognostic tools to predict future disease progression in men with intermediate risk prostate cancers.

23846856.txt

Global microRNA expression profiling reveals differential expression of target genes in 6-hydroxydopamine-injured MN9D cells. Recent evidence indicates that microRNAs (miRNAs) play a key role in neurodegenerative diseases. However, little is known about how these small RNAs contribute to dopaminergic neuronal apoptosis. Here, we profiled the expression of miRNAs in MN9D cells with and without 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) treatment by miRCURY LNA microRNA arrays. We identified six miRNAs (miR-668-3p, let-7d-3p, miR-3077-3p, miR-665-5p, miR-99b-3p, and miR-323-3p) that were significantly lower and five miRNAs (miR-875, miR-207, miR-425-5p, miR-19b-3p, and miR-338-3p) that were significantly higher after 6-OHDA treatment. Among them, five have been demonstrated to be implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. Consistent with our prediction, the deregulated miRNA's target mRNAs, such as peroxiredoxin III (Prx III) and Myc, also showed changes in their expression levels. Furthermore, using a dual-luciferase reporter assay, we confirmed that Prx III was a direct target gene of miR-875. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that changes in miRNA expression occur after 6-OHDA treatment and suggest that miRNAs and their predicted targets have a potential role in apoptosis of MN9D cells.

23851184.txt

Diallyl disulfide suppresses proliferation and induces apoptosis in human gastric cancer through Wnt-1 signaling pathway by up-regulation of miR-200b and miR-22. The purpose of this study was to identify a mechanism related to miRNA pathway which plays a role in the anti-tumor effects of Diallyl disulfide. Alterations in miRNA expression were observed in Diallyl disulfide-treated MGC-803 cells, including up-regulation of miR-200b and miR-22 expression. Furthermore, Wnt-1 was identified as a target of both miR-200b and miR-22. MiR-200b and miR-22 not only synergistically inhibited gastric cancer growth, but also enhanced the antitumor effect of Diallyl disulfide both in vitro and in vivo. It indicated that miR-200b and miR-22 may serve as potential gene therapy and enhance Diallyl disulfide antitumor effects.

23875242.txt

The role of miR-145 in microvasculature. Increasing evidence suggests that microRNAs(miRs) play a crucial role in the cardiovascular system, and recent studies have revealed a significant role of miRs in vascular biology and disease, miR-145 is one of the most-studied miRs, and especially in the vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMCs) proliferation, differentiation, and phenotypic switching. In cardiovascular system, miR-145 is not only important for heart and vascular development but also plays an essential role in cardiac pathological factors, such as hypertrophy, and ischemia. However, its potential role in microvasculature has not been systematically evaluated yet. We are just beginning to understand the regulation of miR in vascular biology. In particular, the miR biogenesis and regulatory pathways in the vascular system have not yet been well characterized, This review focuses on the basic biology and mechanism of action of miR-145 specifically pertaining to microvascular development, pericyte and disease, In addition it addresses the potential for miR-145 to be used therapeutically in the treatment of microvascular disease.

23895517.txt

MicroRNA regulate immune pathways in T-cells in multiple sclerosis (MS). BACKGROUND: MicroRNA are small noncoding RNA molecules that are involved in the control of gene expression. To investigate the role of microRNA in multiple sclerosis (MS), we performed genome-wide expression analyses of mRNA and microRNA in T-cells from MS patients and controls. METHODS: Heparin-anticoagulated peripheral blood was collected from MS-patients and healthy controls followed by isolation of T-cells. MicroRNA and RNA from T-cells was prepared and hybridized to Affymetrix miR 2.0 array and Affymetrix U133Plus 2.0 Human Genome array (Santa Clara, CA), respectively. Verifications were performed with real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). RESULTS: We identified 2,452 differentially expressed genes and 21 differentially expressed microRNA between MS patients and controls. By Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, 20 of 21 differentially expressed microRNA were shown to affect the expression of their target genes, many of which were involved in the immune system. Tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 14 (TNFSF14) was a microRNA target gene significantly decreased in MS. The differential expression of mir-494, mir-197 and the predicted microRNA target gene TNFSF14 was verified by real-time PCR and ELISA. CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that microRNA may be important regulatory molecules in T-cells in MS.

23968734.txt

miR-133a represses tumour growth and metastasis in colorectal cancer by targeting LIM and SH3 protein 1 and inhibiting the MAPK pathway. In recent studies of microRNA expression, miR-133a deregulation was identified in colorectal carcinoma (CRC). However, the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis and progression of CRC are poorly understood. We found that miR-133a expression was usually down-regulated in CRC cell lines and tissue specimens. Ectopic miR-133a expression inhibited cell proliferation and cell migration. Stable overexpression of miR-133a was sufficient to suppress tumour growth and intrahepatic and pulmonary metastasis in vivo. Additional studies showed that miR-133a can target the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of LIM and SH3 protein 1 (LASP1) mRNA and suppress the expression of LASP1, which we identified in previous studies as a CRC-associated protein. In contrast to the phenotypes induced by miR-133a restoration, LASP1-induced cell proliferation and migration rescued miR-133a-mediated biological behaviours, as did LASP1 overexpression. Investigations of possible mechanisms underlying these behaviours revealed that miR-133a modulates the expression of key cellular molecules and participates in the MAPK pathway by inhibiting phosphorylation of ERK and MEK. miR-133a may play a key role in CRC genesis and metastasis, which suggests its potential role in the molecular therapy of cancer.

23992861.txt

Novel anthranilamide-pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine conjugates modulate the expression of p53-MYCN associated micro RNAs in neuroblastoma cells and cause cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. It has previously been shown that anthranilamide-pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine conjugates activate p53 and cause apoptosis in cervical cancer cells such as HeLa and SiHa. Here we establish the role of these conjugates in activating p53 pathway by phosphorylation at Ser15, 20 and 46 residues and downregulate key oncogenic proteins such as MYCN and Mdm2 in IMR-32 neuroblastoma cells. Compounds decreased the proliferation rate of neuroblastoma cells such as IMR-32, Neuro-2a, SK-N-SH. Compound treatment resulted in G2/M cell cycle arrest. The expression of p53 dependent genes such as p21, Bax, caspases was increased with concomitant decrease of the survival proteins as well as anti-apoptotic proteins such as Akt1, E2F1 and Bcl2. In addition the expression of important microRNAs such as miR-34a, c, miR-200b, miR-107, miR-542-5p and miR-605 were significantly increased that eventually lead to the activation of apoptotic pathway. Our data revealed that conjugates of this nature cause cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in IMR-32 cells [MYCN (+) with intact wild-type p53] by activating p53 signalling and provides a lead for the development of anti-cancer therapeutics.

24006456.txt

Extracellular matrix secretion by cardiac fibroblasts: role of microRNA-29b and microRNA-30c. RATIONALE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs), in particular miR-29b and miR-30c, have been implicated as important regulators of cardiac fibrosis. OBJECTIVE: To perform a proteomics comparison of miRNA effects on extracellular matrix secretion by cardiac fibroblasts. METHODS AND RESULTS: Mouse cardiac fibroblasts were transfected with pre-/anti-miR of miR-29b and miR-30c, and their conditioned medium was analyzed by mass spectrometry. miR-29b targeted a cadre of proteins involved in fibrosis, including multiple collagens, matrix metalloproteinases, and leukemia inhibitory factor, insulin-like growth factor 1, and pentraxin 3, 3 predicted targets of miR-29b. miR-29b also attenuated the cardiac fibroblast response to transforming growth factor-beta. In contrast, miR-30c had little effect on extracellular matrix production but opposite effects regarding leukemia inhibitory factor and insulin-like growth factor 1. Both miRNAs indirectly affected cardiac myocytes. On transfection with pre-miR-29b, the conditioned medium of cardiac fibroblasts lost its ability to support adhesion of rat ventricular myocytes and led to a significant reduction of cardiac myocyte proteins (alpha-actinin, cardiac myosin-binding protein C, and cardiac troponin I). Similarly, cardiomyocytes derived from mouse embryonic stem cells atrophied under pre-miR-29 conditioned medium, whereas pre-miR-30c conditioned medium had a prohypertrophic effect. Levels of miR-29a, miR-29c, and miR-30c, but not miR-29b, were significantly reduced in a mouse model of pathological but not physiological hypertrophy. Treatment with antagomiRs to miR-29b induced excess fibrosis after aortic constriction without overt deterioration in cardiac function. CONCLUSIONS: Our proteomic analysis revealed novel molecular targets of miRNAs that are linked to a fibrogenic cardiac phenotype. Such comprehensive screening methods are essential to define the concerted actions of miRNAs in cardiovascular disease.

24023867.txt

Acute stress alters amygdala microRNA miR-135a and miR-124 expression: inferences for corticosteroid dependent stress response. The amygdala is a brain structure considered a key node for the regulation of neuroendocrine stress response. Stress-induced response in amygdala is accomplished through neurotransmitter activation and an alteration of gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of gene expression in the nervous system and are very well suited effectors of stress response for their ability to reversibly silence specific mRNAs. In order to study how acute stress affects miRNAs expression in amygdala we analyzed the miRNA profile after two hours of mouse restraint, by microarray analysis and reverse transcription real time PCR. We found that miR-135a and miR-124 were negatively regulated. Among in silico predicted targets we identified the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) as a target of both miR-135a and miR-124. Luciferase experiments and endogenous protein expression analysis upon miRNA upregulation and inhibition allowed us to demonstrate that mir-135a and mir-124 are able to negatively affect the expression of the MR. The increased levels of the amygdala MR protein after two hours of restraint, that we analyzed by western blot, negatively correlate with miR-135a and miR-124 expression. These findings point to a role of miR-135a and miR-124 in acute stress as regulators of the MR, an important effector of early stress response.

24035613.txt

miR-210 inhibits trophoblast invasion and is a serum biomarker for preeclampsia. Preeclampsia is characterized by hypertension and proteinuria in pregnant women. Its exact cause is unknown. Preeclampsia increases the risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Although delivery, often premature, is the only known cure, early targeted interventions may improve maternal and fetal outcomes. Successful intervention requires a better understanding of the molecular etiology of preeclampsia and the development of accurate methods to predict women at risk. To this end, we tested the role of miR-210, a miRNA up-regulated in preeclamptic placentas, in first-trimester extravillous trophoblasts. miR-210 overexpression reduced trophoblast invasion, a process necessary for uteroplacental perfusion, in an extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent manner. Conversely, miR-210 inhibition promoted invasion. Furthermore, given that the placenta secretes miRNAs into the maternal circulation, we tested if serum expression of miR-210 was associated with the disease. We measured miR-210 expression in two clinical studies: a case-control study and a prospective cohort study. Serum miR-210 expression was significantly associated with a diagnosis of preeclampsia (P = 0.007, area under the receiver operator curves = 0.81) and was predictive of the disease, even months before clinical diagnosis (P < 0.0001, area under the receiver operator curve = 0.89). Hence, we conclude that aberrant expression of miR-210 may contribute to trophoblast function and that miR-210 is a novel predictive serum biomarker for preeclampsia that can help in identifying at-risk women for monitoring and treatment.

24145190.txt

Maintenance of the stemness in CD44(+) HCT-15 and HCT-116 human colon cancer cells requires miR-203 suppression. The purpose of this study was to isolate cancer stem cells (CSCs, also called tumor-initiating cells, TICs) from established human colorectal carcinoma (CRC) cell lines, characterize them extensively and dissect the mechanism for their stemness. Freshly isolated CD44(+) and CD44(-) cells from the HCT-15 human colon cancer cell line were subjected to various analyses. Interestingly, CD44(+) cells exhibited higher soft agar colony-forming ability and in vivo tumorigenicity than CD44(-) cells. In addition, the significant upregulation of the protein Snail and the downregulation of miR-203, a stemness inhibitor, in CD44(+) cells suggested that this population possessed higher invasion/metastasis and differentiation potential than CD44(-) cells. By manipulating the expression of CD44 in HCT-15 and HCT-116 cells, we found that the levels of several EMT activators and miR-203 were positively and negatively correlated with those of CD44, respectively. Further analyses revealed that miR-203 levels were repressed by Snail, which was shown to bind to specific E-box(es) present in the miR-203 promoter. In agreement, silencing miR-203 expression in wild-type HCT-116 human colon cancer cells also resulted in an increase of their stemness. Finally, we discovered that c-Src kinase activity was required for the downregulation of miR-203 in HCT-15 cells, which was stimulated by the interaction between hyaluronan (HA) and CD44. Taken together, CD44 is a critical molecule for modulating stemness in CSCs. More importantly, we show for the first time that the downregulation of miR-203 by HA/CD44 signaling is the main reason for stemness-maintenance in colon cancer cells.

24155920.txt

Involvement of miRNAs in the differentiation of human glioblastoma multiforme stem-like cells. Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)-initiating cells (GICs) represent a tumor subpopulation with neural stem cell-like properties that is responsible for the development, progression and therapeutic resistance of human GBM. We have recently shown that blockade of NFkappaB pathway promotes terminal differentiation and senescence of GICs both in vitro and in vivo, indicating that induction of differentiation may be a potential therapeutic strategy for GBM. MicroRNAs have been implicated in the pathogenesis of GBM, but a high-throughput analysis of their role in GIC differentiation has not been reported. We have established human GIC cell lines that can be efficiently differentiated into cells expressing astrocytic and neuronal lineage markers. Using this in vitro system, a microarray-based high-throughput analysis to determine global expression changes of microRNAs during differentiation of GICs was performed. A number of changes in the levels of microRNAs were detected in differentiating GICs, including over-expression of hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-29a, hsa-miR-29b, hsa-miR-221 and hsa-miR-222, and down-regulation of hsa-miR-93 and hsa-miR-106a. Functional studies showed that miR-21 over-expression in GICs induced comparable cell differentiation features and targeted SPRY1 mRNA, which encodes for a negative regulator of neural stem-cell differentiation. In addition, miR-221 and miR-222 inhibition in differentiated cells restored the expression of stem cell markers while reducing differentiation markers. Finally, miR-29a and miR-29b targeted MCL1 mRNA in GICs and increased apoptosis. Our study uncovers the microRNA dynamic expression changes occurring during differentiation of GICs, and identifies miR-21 and miR-221/222 as key regulators of this process.

24158791.txt

miR-139-5p is a regulator of metastatic pathways in breast cancer. Metastasis is a complex, multistep process involved in the progression of cancer from a localized primary tissue to distant sites, often characteristic of the more aggressive forms of this disease. Despite being studied in great detail in recent years, the mechanisms that govern this process remain poorly understood. In this study, we identify a novel role for miR-139-5p in the inhibition of breast cancer progression. We highlight its clinical relevance by reviewing miR-139-5p expression across a wide variety of breast cancer subtypes using in-house generated and online data sets to show that it is most frequently lost in invasive tumors. A biotin pull-down approach was then used to identify the mRNA targets of miR-139-5p in the breast cancer cell line MCF7. Functional enrichment analysis of the pulled-down targets showed significant enrichment of genes in pathways previously implicated in breast cancer metastasis (P < 0.05). Further bioinformatic analysis revealed a predicted disruption to the TGFbeta, Wnt, Rho, and MAPK/PI3K signaling cascades, implying a potential role for miR-139-5p in regulating the ability of cells to invade and migrate. To corroborate this finding, using the MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line, we show that overexpression of miR-139-5p results in suppression of these cellular phenotypes. Furthermore, we validate the interaction between miR-139-5p and predicted targets involved in these pathways. Collectively, these results suggest a significant functional role for miR-139-5p in breast cancer cell motility and invasion and its potential to be used as a prognostic marker for the aggressive forms of breast cancer.

24219008.txt

Dynamically regulated miRNA-mRNA networks revealed by exercise. BACKGROUND: MiRNAs are essential mediators of many biological processes. The aim of this study was to investigate the dynamics of miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks during exercise and the subsequent recovery period. RESULTS: Here we monitored the transcriptome changes using microarray analysis of the whole blood of eight highly trained athletes before and after 30 min of moderate exercise followed by 30 min and 60 min of recovery period. We combined expression profiling and bioinformatics and analysed metabolic pathways enriched with differentially expressed mRNAs and mRNAs which are known to be validated targets of differentially expressed miRNAs. Finally we revealed four dynamically regulated networks comprising differentially expressed miRNAs and their known target mRNAs with anti-correlated expression profiles over time. The data suggest that hsa-miR-21-5p regulated TGFBR3, PDGFD and PPM1L mRNAs. Hsa-miR-24-2-5p was likely to be responsible for MYC and KCNJ2 genes and hsa-miR-27a-5p for ST3GAL6. The targets of hsa-miR-181a-5p included ROPN1L and SLC37A3. All these mRNAs are involved in processes highly relevant to exercise response, including immune function, apoptosis, membrane traffic of proteins and transcription regulation. CONCLUSIONS: We have identified metabolic pathways involved in response to exercise and revealed four miRNA-mRNA networks dynamically regulated following exercise. This work is the first study to monitor miRNAs and mRNAs in parallel into the recovery period. The results provide a novel insight into the regulatory role of miRNAs in stress adaptation.

24219349.txt

miR-203 inhibits the proliferation and self-renewal of esophageal cancer stem-like cells by suppressing stem renewal factor Bmi-1. Cancer stem-like cells exist in many malignancies and several stem cell-related genes and microRNAs, such as Bmi-1 and miR-203, have been identified as cancer stem-like cell regulators using gene microarray or sequencing analysis. Previously, we used side population (SP) sorting to enrich cancer stem-like cells from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) cell line EC9706. Our results demonstrated that EC9706 SP cells shared common features of cancer stem-like cells. In this study, we examined the expression of Bmi-1 and miR-203 in ESCC SP and non-SP (NSP) cells. Our results showed that, when compared with NSP cells, Bmi-1 was up-regulated and miR-203 was down-regulated in SP cells. During the differentiation from SP to NSP cells, the expression levels of Bmi-1 were gradually decreased. Overexpression of miR-203 resulted in a significant reduction of endogenous Bmi-1 protein level in EC9706 cells. SP and NSP analyses revealed that the SP cell fraction was markedly decreased in miR-203 overexpressed cells. miR-203 overexpressed cells also showed a significant reduction in colony formation, which was resistant to chemotherapeutic drug treatment and tumorigenicity in nude mice. Rescue experiments demonstrated that ectopic expression of Bmi-1 in miR-203 overexpressed cells increased the SP fraction and restored cell proliferation. Taken together, these results indicated that stem renewal factor Bmi-1 was a direct target of miR-203. The regulation of Bmi-1 by miR-203 may play an important role in controlling cell proliferation and self-renewal of esophageal cancer stem-like cells. It may also promote the development of new therapeutic strategies and efficient drugs that target ESCC stem-like cells.

24220339.txt

MicroRNA-490-5p inhibits proliferation of bladder cancer by targeting c-Fos. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-protein-coding sequences that play a crucial role in tumorigenesis by negatively regulating gene expression. Here, we found that miR-490-5p is down-regulated in human bladder cancer tissue and cell lines compared to normal adjacent tissue and a non-malignant cell line. To better characterize the function of miR-490-5p in bladder cancer, we over-expressed miR-490-5p in bladder cancer cell lines with chemically synthesized mimics. Enforced expression of miR-490-5p in bladder cancer cells significantly inhibited the cell proliferation via G1-phase arrest. Further studies found the decreased c-Fos expression at both mRNA and protein levels and Luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that c-Fos is a direct target of miR-490-5p in bladder cancer. These findings indicate miR-490-5p to be a novel tumor suppressor of bladder cancer cell proliferation through targeting c-Fos.

24223656.txt

miR-31 promotes oncogenesis in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma cells via the direct suppression of RASA1. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the pathogenesis of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC). However, the role of microRNA-31 (miR-31) in ICC has yet to be elucidated. In this study, we demonstrated that the expression of miR-31 was significantly upregulated in ICC tissues and the human ICC cell line HCCC-9810, when compared with that in normal adjacent tissues. Bioinformatic analysis and a dual-luciferase reporter assay revealed RAS p21 GTPase activating protein 1 (RASA1) to be a direct target of miR-31 in HCCC-9810 cells. Further investigation showed that the protein expression level of RASA1 was significantly decreased in ICC tissues, suggesting an inverse correlation between miR-31 and RASA1 expression during the tumorigenesis of ICC. Moreover, the forced downregulation of miR-31 by its inhibitor in HCCC-9810 cells significantly inhibited cell proliferation and promoted cell apoptosis. However, when the cells were cotransfected with miR-31 inhibitor and RASA1-specific small interfering RNA (siRNA), these changes were attenuated. Further analysis of the molecular mechanism showed that the activity of the RAS-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway was significantly decreased in miR-31-downregulated HCCC-8910 cells, while cotransfection with miR-31 inhibitor and RASA1-specific siRNA attenuated this effect. These results indicate that the downregulation of RASA1 by miR-31 promoted cellular proliferation and inhibited cellular apoptosis, partially by upregulating the activity of the RAS-MAPK signaling pathway in ICC. In conclusion, the present study revealed important regulatory functions of miR-31 and RASA1 in ICC, indicating that miR-31 and RASA1 may become promising diagnostic and/or therapeutic targets for ICC.

24314216.txt

[Effect of miRNA-106a expression on the prognosis of patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma]. OBJECTIVE: To study the expression of miRNA-106a gene in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and its association with clinicopathological features and prognosis of ESCC patients. METHODS: Real-time fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was used to determine the expression of miRNA-106a gene in esophageal cancer tissue and corresponding normal mucosa of 81 cases. Immunohistochemical technique was applied to detect the expression of p53, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2), DNA topoisomerase II (Topo II) and multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP). The association of miRNA-106a expression with clinicopathological features, expression of related proteins, and prognosis of the patients was analyzed. RESULTS: Among the 81 cases, under-expression of miRNA-106a gene was found in 48 cases (59.3%), normal expression in 22 cases (27.2%), and overexpression in 11 cases (13.6%). The expression of miRNA-106 gene was significantly associated with lymph node metastasis, pathological stage, and nerve invasion (all P < 0.05), significantly associated with expression of p53 (P = 0.006), and not significantly associated with expressions of HER-2, Topo II and MRP proteins (all P > 0.05). The expression of miRNA-106a gene was also significantly associated with progression-free survival (PFS, P = 0.032), but not significantly with overall survival (OS, P = 0.486). The results of Cox multivariate regression analysis showed that the PFS of ESCC patients was significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis (P = 0.029), but not correlated with the age, gender, tumor length, T stage, degree of differentiation, nerve invasion, and miRNA-106a expression (all P > 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: In esophageal squamous cell carcinomas, the miRNA-106a gene is under-expressed, with tumor suppressor function, and may be regarded as a biological marker to assess the prognosis in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.

24319262.txt

The p53 transcription factor modulates microglia behavior through microRNA-dependent regulation of c-Maf. Neuroinflammation occurs in acute and chronic CNS injury, including stroke, traumatic brain injury, and neurodegenerative diseases. Microglia are specialized resident myeloid cells that mediate CNS innate immune responses. Disease-relevant stimuli, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS), can influence microglia activation. Previously, we observed that p53, a ROS-responsive transcription factor, modulates microglia behaviors in vitro and in vivo, promoting proinflammatory functions and suppressing downregulation of the inflammatory response and tissue repair. In this article we describe a novel mechanism by which p53 modulates the functional differentiation of microglia both in vitro and in vivo. Adult microglia from p53-deficient mice have increased expression of the anti-inflammatory transcription factor c-Maf. To determine how p53 negatively regulates c-Maf, we examined the impact of p53 on known c-Maf regulators. MiR-155 is a microRNA that targets c-Maf. We observed that cytokine-induced expression of miR-155 was suppressed in p53-deficient microglia. Furthermore, Twist2, a transcriptional activator of c-Maf, is increased in p53-deficient microglia. We identified recognition sites in the 3' untranslated region of Twist2 mRNA that are predicted to interact with two p53-dependent microRNAs: miR-34a and miR-145. In this article, we demonstrate that miR-34a and -145 are regulated by p53 and negatively regulate Twist2 and c-Maf expression in microglia and the RAW macrophage cell line. Taken together, these findings support the hypothesis that p53 activation induced by local ROS or accumulated DNA damage influences microglia functions and that one specific molecular target of p53 in microglia is c-Maf.

24330780.txt

Microrna-124 targets flotillin-1 to regulate proliferation and migration in breast cancer. BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been documented as playing important roles in cancer development. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-124 in breast cancer and clarified the regulation of flotillin-1 (FLOT1) by miR-124. METHODS: The expression levels of miR-124 were examined in breast cancer cell lines and patient specimens using quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. The clinicopathological significance of the resultant data was later analyzed. Next, we explored the function of miR-124 to determine its potential roles on cancer cell growth and migration in vitro. A luciferase reporter assay was conducted to confirm the target gene of miR-124, and the results were validated in cell lines and patient specimens. RESULTS: We found that miR-124 expression was significantly downregulated in breast cancer cell lines and patient specimen compared with normal cell lines and paired adjacent normal tissues (P < 0.0001), respectively. MiR-124 was also associated with tumor node metastasis (TNM) stage (P = 0.0007) and lymph node metastasis (P = 0.0004). In breast cancer cell lines, the ectopic expression of miR-124 inhibited cell growth and migration in vitro. Moreover, we identified the FLOT1 gene as a novel direct target of miR-124, and miR-124 ectopic expression significantly inhibited FLOT1. Luciferase assays confirmed that miR-124 could directly bind to the 3' untranslated region of FLOT1 and suppress translation. Moreover, FLOT1 was widely upregulated, and inversely correlated with miR-124 in breast cancer tissues. Consistent with the effect of miR-124, the knockdown of FLOT1 significantly inhibited breast cancer cell growth and migration. We also observed that the rescue expression of FLOT1 partially restored the effects of miR-124. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that miR-124 might be a tumor suppressor in breast cancer via the regulation of FLOT1. This microRNA could serve as a potential diagnostic marker and therapeutic target for breast cancer.

24376808.txt

Differentially expressed wound healing-related microRNAs in the human diabetic cornea. MicroRNAs are powerful gene expression regulators, but their corneal repertoire and potential changes in corneal diseases remain unknown. Our purpose was to identify miRNAs altered in the human diabetic cornea by microarray analysis, and to examine their effects on wound healing in cultured telomerase-immortalized human corneal epithelial cells (HCEC) in vitro. Total RNA was extracted from age-matched human autopsy normal (n=6) and diabetic (n=6) central corneas, Flash Tag end-labeled, and hybridized to Affymetrix(R) GeneChip(R) miRNA Arrays. Select miRNAs associated with diabetic cornea were validated by quantitative RT-PCR (Q-PCR) and by in situ hybridization (ISH) in independent samples. HCEC were transfected with human pre-miRmiRNA precursors (h-miR) or their inhibitors (antagomirs) using Lipofectamine 2000. Confluent transfected cultures were scratch-wounded with P200 pipette tip. Wound closure was monitored by digital photography. Expression of signaling proteins was detected by immunostaining and Western blot. Using microarrays, 29 miRNAs were identified as differentially expressed in diabetic samples. Two miRNA candidates showing the highest fold increased in expression in the diabetic cornea were confirmed by Q-PCR and further characterized. HCEC transfection with h-miR-146a or h-miR-424 significantly retarded wound closure, but their respective antagomirs significantly enhanced wound healing vs. controls. Cells treated with h-miR-146a or h-miR-424 had decreased p-p38 and p-EGFR staining, but these increased over control levels close to the wound edge upon antagomir treatment. In conclusion, several miRNAs with increased expression in human diabetic central corneas were found. Two such miRNAs inhibited cultured corneal epithelial cell wound healing. Dysregulation of miRNA expression in human diabetic cornea may be an important mediator of abnormal wound healing.

